---
title: Migrate from ASP.NET Core 7.0 to 8.0
author: rick-anderson
description: Learn how to migrate an ASP.NET Core 6 project to ASP.NET Core 8.0
ms.author: riande
ms.date: 10/13/2022
uid: migration/70-to-80
---
# Migrate from ASP.NET Core 7.0 to 8.0

This article explains how to update an existing ASP.NET Core 7.0 project to ASP.NET Core 8.0

## Prerequisites

# [Visual Studio](#tab/visual-studio)

[!INCLUDE[](~/includes/net-prereqs-vs-8.0.md)]

# [Visual Studio Code](#tab/visual-studio-code)

[!INCLUDE[](~/includes/net-prereqs-vsc-8.0.md)]

# [Visual Studio for Mac](#tab/visual-studio-mac)

[!INCLUDE[](~/includes/net-prereqs-mac-8.0.md)]

---

## Update .NET Core SDK version in `global.json`

If you rely on a [`global.json`](/dotnet/core/tools/global-json) file to target a specific .NET Core SDK version, update the `version` property to the .NET 8.0 SDK version that's installed. For example:

```diff
{
  "sdk": {
-    "version": "6.0.200"
+    "version": "8.0.100"
  }
}
```

## Update the target framework

Update the project file's [Target Framework Moniker (TFM)](/dotnet/standard/frameworks) to `net8.0`:

```diff
<Project Sdk="Microsoft.NET.Sdk.Web">

  <PropertyGroup>
-    <TargetFramework>net7.0</TargetFramework>
+    <TargetFramework>net8.0</TargetFramework>
  </PropertyGroup>

</Project>
```

## Update package references

In the project file, update each [`Microsoft.AspNetCore.*`](https://www.nuget.org/packages?q=Microsoft.AspNetCore.*), [`Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.*`](https://www.nuget.org/packages?q=Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.*), [`Microsoft.Extensions.*`](https://www.nuget.org/packages?q=Microsoft.Extensions.*), and [`System.Net.Http.Json`](https://www.nuget.org/packages/System.Net.Http.Json) package reference's `Version` attribute to 8.00 or later. For example:

```diff
<ItemGroup>
-   <PackageReference Include="Microsoft.AspNetCore.JsonPatch" Version="8.0.0" />
-   <PackageReference Include="Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.Tools" Version="8.0.0" />
-   <PackageReference Include="Microsoft.Extensions.Caching.Abstractions" Version="8.0.0" />
-   <PackageReference Include="System.Net.Http.Json" Version="8.0.0" />
+   <PackageReference Include="Microsoft.AspNetCore.JsonPatch" Version="8.0.0" />
+   <PackageReference Include="Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.Tools" Version="8.0.0">
+   <PackageReference Include="Microsoft.Extensions.Caching.Abstractions" Version="8.0.0" />
+   <PackageReference Include="System.Net.Http.Json" Version="8.0.0" />
</ItemGroup>
```

## Blazor

<!-- UPDATE 8.0 Add API cross-links after RTM -->

The following migration scenarios are covered:

* [Update a Blazor Server app](#update-a-blazor-server-app)
* [Add interactive WebAssembly components to a Blazor Server app](#add-interactive-webassembly-components-to-a-blazor-server-app)
* [Convert a Blazor Server app into a Blazor Web App](#convert-a-blazor-server-app-into-a-blazor-web-app)
* [Update a Blazor WebAssembly app](#update-a-blazor-webassembly-app)
* [Update a hosted Blazor WebAssembly app](#update-a-hosted-blazor-webassembly-app)

For scenarios not covered or to convert a .NET 6 or earlier app into a Blazor Web App, we recommend the following process:

* Create a new app from the Blazor Web App project template. For more information, see <xref:blazor/tooling>.
* Move the your app's components and code to the new Blazor Web App app, making modifications to adopt new features.
* Update the layout and styles of the Blazor Web App.

New .NET 8 features are covered in <xref:aspnetcore-8#blazor>. When updating an app from .NET 6 or earlier, see the migration and release notes (*What's new* articles) for intervening releases.

### Update a Blazor Server app

Blazor Server apps are supported in .NET 8. Use the following guidance to update a Blazor Server app to .NET 8, which makes all of the [new .NET 8 features](xref:aspnetcore-8#blazor) available.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This section focuses on the minimal changes required to update a .NET 7 Blazor Server app to .NET 8. The guidance in this section doesn't cover adoption of the Blazor Web App project template folder and file layout structure, nor does it adhere to new layout, error UI, navigation menu, stylesheet, and other changes introduced for Blazor Web Apps. To adopt all of the introduced changes for .NET 8, convert the Blazor Server app into a Blazor Web App by following the guidance in the [Convert a Blazor Server app into a Blazor Web App](#convert-a-blazor-server-app-into-a-blazor-web-app) section. 

1. Follow the guidance in the first three sections of this article:

   * [Update .NET Core SDK version in `global.json`](#update-net-core-sdk-version-in-globaljson)
   * [Update the target framework](#update-the-target-framework)
   * [Update package references](#update-package-references)

1. Move the contents of the `App` component (`App.razor`) to a new `Routes` component file (`Routes.razor`) added to the project's root folder. Leave the empty `App.razor` file in the app in the project's root folder.

1. Add an entry to the `_Imports.razor` file to make shorthand render modes available to the app:

   ```razor
   @using static Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Web.RenderMode
   ```

1. Move the content in the `_Host` page (`Pages/_Host.cshtml`) to the empty `App.razor` file. Proceed to make the following changes to the `App` component.

   > [!NOTE]
   > In the following example, the project's namespace is `Net8BlazorServer`. Adjust the namespace to match your project.

   Remove the following lines from the top of the file:

   ```diff
   - @page "/"
   - @using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Web
   - @namespace Net8BlazorServer.Pages
   - @addTagHelper *, Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.TagHelpers
   ```
   
   Replace the preceding lines with the following:

   ```razor
   @inject IHostEnvironment Env
   ```

   Remove the tilde (`~`) from the `href` of the `<base>` tag:

   ```diff
   - <base href="~/" />
   + <base href="/" />
   ```

   Remove the Component Tag Helper for the `HeadOutlet` component:

   ```diff
   - <component type="typeof(HeadOutlet)" render-mode="ServerPrerendered" />
   ```

   Replace the preceding line's tag helper with the `HeadOutlet` component:

   ```razor
   <HeadOutlet @rendermode="RenderMode.InteractiveServer" />
   ```

   Remove the Component Tag Helper for the `App` component:

   ```diff
   - <component type="typeof(App)" render-mode="ServerPrerendered" />
   ```

   Replace the preceding line's tag helper with the `Routes` component:

   ```razor
   <Routes @rendermode="RenderMode.InteractiveServer" />
   ```

   > [!NOTE]
   > The preceding configuration assumes that the app's components adopt interactive server rendering. For more information, including how to adopt static server rendering, see <xref:blazor/components/render-modes>.

   Remove the Environment Tag Helpers for error UI:

   ```diff
   - <environment include="Staging,Production">
   -     An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded.
   - </environment>
   - <environment include="Development">
   -     An unhandled exception has occurred. See browser dev tools for details.
   - </environment>
   ```

   Replace the preceding tag helpers with the following lines:

   ```razor
   @if (Env.IsDevelopment())
   {
       <text>
           An unhandled exception has occurred. See browser dev tools for details.
       </text>
   }
   else
   {
       <text>
           An error has occurred. This app may no longer respond until reloaded.
       </text>
   }
   ```

   Change the Blazor script from `blazor.server.js` to `blazor.web.js`:

   ```diff
   - <script src="_framework/blazor.server.js"></script>
   + <script src="_framework/blazor.web.js"></script>
   ```

1. Delete the `Pages/_Host.cshtml` file.

1. Update `Program.cs`:

   > [!NOTE]
   > In the following example, the project's namespace is `Net8BlazorServer`. Adjust the namespace to match your project.

   Add a `using` statement to the top of the file for the project's namespace:

   ```csharp
   using Net8BlazorServer;
   ```
  
   Replace `AddServerSideBlazor` with `AddRazorComponents` and a chained call to `AddInteractiveServerComponents`.
   
   Remove the following line:

   ```diff
   - builder.Services.AddServerSideBlazor();
   ```

   Replace the line with the following lines:

   ```csharp
   builder.Services.AddRazorComponents()
       .AddInteractiveServerComponents();
   ```

   Replace `MapBlazorHub` with `MapRazorComponents`, supplying the `App` component as the root component type, and add a chained call to `AddInteractiveServerRenderMode`.
   
   Remove the following line:
  
   ```diff
   - app.MapBlazorHub();
   ```

   Replace the line with the following lines:

   ```csharp
   app.MapRazorComponents<App>()
       .AddInteractiveServerRenderMode();
   ```

   Remove the following line:
   
   ```diff
   - app.MapFallbackToPage("/_Host");
   ```

   Add [Antiforgery Middleware](xref:blazor/security/index#antiforgery-support) to the request processing pipeline immediately after the call to `app.UseRouting`. If there are calls to `app.UseRouting` and `app.UseEndpoints`, the call to `app.UseAntiforgery` must go between them. Calls to `app.UseAntiforgery` must be placed after calls to `app.UseAuthentication` and `app.UseAuthorization`.

   ```csharp
   app.UseAntiforgery();
   ```

1. If the Blazor Server app was configured to disable prerendering, you can continue to disable prerendering for the updated app. In the `App` component, change the value assigned to the `@rendermode` Razor directive attributes for the `HeadOutlet` and `Routes` components.

   Remove the following from the `HeadOutlet` and `Routes` components:

   ```diff
   - @rendermode="RenderMode.InteractiveServer"
   ```

   Replace with the following:

   ```razor
   @rendermode="new InteractiveServerRenderMode(prerender: false)"
   ```

   For more information, see <xref:blazor/components/render-modes?view=aspnetcore-8.0&preserve-view=true#prerendering>.

### Add interactive WebAssembly components to a Blazor Server app

This section covers adding interactive WebAssembly components to a Blazor Server app after updating the Blazor Server app to .NET 8.

Use the following process:

1. Follow the guidance in the [Update a Blazor Server app](#update-a-blazor-server-app) section.

   > [!NOTE]
   > For the examples in this section, the Blazor Server app's name and namespace is carried over from the preceding *Update a Blazor Server app* section. The example app name and namespace is `Net8BlazorServer`.

1. Add a package reference for the [`Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.WebAssembly.Server`](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.WebAssembly.Server) NuGet package to the Blazor Server app.

   [!INCLUDE[](~/includes/package-reference.md)]

<!-- UPDATE 8.0 'Interactivity type' will change to 'Interactive render mode' at RTM -->

1. Create a donor Blazor Web App, which will provide assets to the Blazor Server app. Follow the guidance in the <xref:blazor/tooling> article, selecting support for the following template features when generating the Blazor Web App.

   For the app's name, use the same name as the Blazor Server app, which results in matching app name markup in components and matching namespaces in code.

   * For **Interactivity type**, select **Auto (Server and WebAssembly)** for Visual Studio or use the `-int Auto` option if using the .NET CLI.
   * Ignore the **Interactivity location** setting. The `App` component of the donor project isn't used, and configuring the render mode globally or on a per-component basis is covered by a manual change made to the app in a later step.

1. From the donor Blazor Web App, copy the entire `.Client` project into the solution folder of the Blazor Server app.

   > [!IMPORTANT]
   > Don't copy the `.Client` folder into the Blazor Server project's folder. The best approach for organizing .NET solutions is to place each project of the solution into its own folder inside of a top-level solution folder. If a solution folder above the Blazor Server project's folder doesn't exist, create one. Next, copy the `.Client` project's folder from the donor Blazor Web App into the solution folder. The final project folder structure should have the following layout:
   >
   > * `Net8BlazorServerSolution` (top-level solution folder)
   >   * `Net8BlazorServer` (original Blazor Server project)
   >   * `Net8BlazorServer.Client` (`.Client` project folder from the donor Blazor Web App)
   >
   > For the Blazor Server solution file, you can leave it in the Blazor Server project's folder. Alternatively, you can move the solution file or create a new one in the top-level solution folder as long as the project references correctly point to the project files (`.csproj`) of the two projects in the solution folder.

1. Delete the donor Blazor Web App, as it has no further use in this process.

1. Add the `.Client` project to the solution:

   In Visual Studio, right-click the solution in **Solution Explorer** and select **Add** > **Existing Project**. Navigate to the `.Client` folder and select the project file (`.csproj`).

   If using the .NET CLI, use the [`dotnet sln add` command](/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-sln#add) to add the `.Client` project to the solution.

1. Add a project reference to the Blazor Server project for the client project:

   In Visual Studio, right-click the Blazor Server project and select **Add** > **Project Reference**. Select the `.Client` project and select **OK**.

   If using the .NET CLI, from the Blazor Server project's folder, use the following command:

   ```dotnetcli
   dotnet add reference ../Net8BlazorServer.Client/Net8BlazorServer.Client.csproj 
   ```

   > [!NOTE]
   > The preceding command assumes the following:
   >
   > * The project file name is `Net8BlazorServer.Client.csproj`.
   > * The `.Client` project is in a `Net8BlazorServer.Client` folder inside the solution folder. The `.Client` folder is side-by-side with the Blazor Server project's folder.
   >
   > For more information on the `dotnet add reference` command, see [`dotnet add reference` (.NET documentation)](/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-add-reference).

1. In the Blazor Server app's `Routes` component (`Routes.razor`):

   Add the client project's assembly to the router in the first line of the file:

   ```diff
   - <Router AppAssembly="@typeof(App).Assembly">
   + <Router AppAssembly="@typeof(App).Assembly" 
   +     AdditionalAssemblies="new[] { typeof(Client._Imports).Assembly }">
   ```

   Remove the `<NotFound>` tags and content, as this markup is no longer used:

   ```diff
   - <NotFound>
   -     <PageTitle>Not found</PageTitle>
   -     <LayoutView Layout="@typeof(MainLayout)">
   -         <p role="alert">Sorry, there's nothing at this address.</p>
   -     </LayoutView>
   - </NotFound>
   ```

   If you want to replace the loss of `<NotFound>` functionality, implement [Status Code Pages](xref:fundamentals/error-handling#usestatuscodepages) in the Blazor Server app (`Net8BlazorServer` project), which includes options for a default response string, a custom response string, or a redirect to an error handling endpoint. 
     
   For a default response string, place Status Code Pages Middleware immediately after the line that adds HTTPS Redirection Middleware (`app.UseHttpsRedirection`) in the `Program` file of the Blazor Server app:
     
   ```csharp
   app.UseStatusCodePages();
   ```
     
   For more information, see <xref:fundamentals/error-handling#usestatuscodepages>.

1. Add the interactive WebAssembly component services (`AddInteractiveWebAssemblyComponents`) to the project's `Program` file where Razor component services are added with `AddRazorComponents`:

   ```csharp
   builder.Services.AddRazorComponents()
       .AddInteractiveServerComponents()
       .AddInteractiveWebAssemblyComponents();
   ```

   Add the interactive WebAssembly render mode (`AddInteractiveWebAssemblyRenderMode`) and additional assemblies for the `.Client` project where Razor components are mapped with `MapRazorComponents`:

   ```csharp
   app.MapRazorComponents<App>()
       .AddInteractiveServerRenderMode()
       .AddInteractiveWebAssemblyRenderMode()
       .AddAdditionalAssemblies(typeof(Net8BlazorServer.Client._Imports).Assembly);
   ```

1. Configure the root `HeadOutlet` and `Routes` components to set the render mode on a per-component definition or instance by removing the `@rendermode` directive attribute from each component instance.

   In the `App` component (`App.razor`):

   ```diff
   - <HeadOutlet @rendermode="RenderMode.InteractiveServer" />
   + <HeadOutlet />

   ...

   - <Routes @rendermode="RenderMode.InteractiveServer" />
   + <Routes />
   ```

1. Configure the render mode and location of each Razor component in the Blazor Server app.

   The donor Blazor Web App supplies a `Counter` component to the solution (`Pages/Counter.razor` in the `Net8BlazorServer.Client` project), which can be used for development testing.

   Notice that the `Counter` component in the `.Client` project adopts the Auto render mode either using the `@attribute` ***or*** `@rendermode` directive:

   ```razor
   @attribute [RenderModeInteractiveAuto]
   ```

   <!-- UPDATE 8.0 To adopt simplified naming at RTM -->

   ```razor
   @rendermode RenderMode.InteractiveAuto
   ```

   For any of your Blazor Server app components that should also adopt the Auto render mode, move them to the `.Client` project's `Pages` folder (or `Shared` folder for non-routable, shared components) and provide the routable components in the `Pages` folder with ***either*** of the preceding directives, noting that a shared component typically inherits its render mode and doesn't require a directive.
   
   Such components render on the server first, then render on the client after the Blazor bundle has been downloaded and the Blazor runtime activates. Keep in mind that component code is ***not*** private using the Auto render mode.

   To further test in development with an interactive server `Counter` component, make a copy of the `Client` project's `Counter` component and change its file name to `Counter2.razor`. Place the file in the Blazor Server app (`Pages/Counter2.razor` in the `Net8BlazorServer` project).
   
   Open the `Counter2.razor` file and change the route to avoid a conflict with the existing `Counter` component:
   
   ```diff
   - @page "/counter"
   + @page "/counter-2"
   ```
     
   Also, change the interactive render mode using ***either*** of the following lines:
   
   ```razor
   @attribute [RenderModeInteractiveServer]
   ```

   <!-- UPDATE 8.0 To adopt simplified naming at RTM -->

   ```razor
   @rendermode RenderMode.InteractiveServer
   ```

   For Blazor Server components that should also strictly adopt the interactive server render mode, add ***either*** of the preceding directives to them and leave them in the Blazor Server project's `Pages`/`Shared` folders. Such components only ever render on the server. Component code is kept private on the server using the interactive server render mode.

   When the app is run in the next step, navigate to each of the counter components (`/counter` and `/counter-2`) to inspect how they render.
   
   If any of your server-side components should also disable prerendering, see <xref:blazor/components/render-modes#prerendering>.

   For any components that should strictly adopt the interactive WebAssembly render mode in the `.Client` project (`Pages` folder of the `Net8BlazorServer.Client` project), explicitly configure the render mode:

   ```razor
   @attribute [RenderModeInteractiveWebAssembly]
   ```

   <!-- UPDATE 8.0 To adopt simplified naming at RTM -->

   ```razor
   @rendermode RenderMode.InteractiveWebAssembly
   ```

   Such components only render on the client after the Blazor bundle has been downloaded and the Blazor runtime activates. Keep in mind that component code is ***not*** private using the interactive WebAssembly render mode.

   For additional information on applying render modes to components, see <xref:blazor/components/render-modes>.

1. Run the solution from the ***Blazor Server*** project:

   For Visual Studio, confirm that the Blazor Server project is selected in **Solution Explorer** when running the app.
   
   If using the .NET CLI, run the project from the Blazor Server project's folder.

   For the `Counter` component of the `.Client` project, navigate to `/counter`.

   If you added the `Counter2` component, which is strictly configured for interactive server rendering, navigate to `/counter-2`.

### Convert a Blazor Server app into a Blazor Web App

To adopt all of the changes that were made to the project templates for this release, we recommend the following process:

* Create a new project from the Blazor Web App project template. For more information, see <xref:blazor/tooling>.
* Move the app's components and code to the new app, making modifications to adopt new features.
* Update the layout and styles of the Blazor Web App to match the Blazor Server app.

New .NET 8 features are covered in <xref:aspnetcore-8#blazor>. When updating an app from .NET 6 or earlier, see the migration and release notes (*What's new* articles) for intervening releases.

### Update a Blazor WebAssembly app

Follow the guidance in the first three sections of this article:

* [Update .NET Core SDK version in global.json](#update-net-core-sdk-version-in-globaljson)
* [Update the target framework](#update-the-target-framework)
* [Update package references](#update-package-references)

Adopt [.NET 8 features](xref:aspnetcore-8#blazor). When updating an app from .NET 6 or earlier, see the migration and release notes (*What's new* articles) for intervening releases.

### Update a hosted Blazor WebAssembly app

To upgrade an existing ASP.NET Core hosted Blazor WebAssembly app to .NET 8:

1. Follow the guidance in the first three sections of this article:

   * [Update .NET Core SDK version in global.json](#update-net-core-sdk-version-in-globaljson)
   * [Update the target framework](#update-the-target-framework)
   * [Update package references](#update-package-references)

   > [!IMPORTANT]
   > Using the preceding guidance, update the `Client`, `Server`, and `Shared` projects of the solution.

   For information on .NET 8 features, see <xref:aspnetcore-8#blazor>. When updating an app from .NET 6 or earlier, see the migration and release notes (*What's new* articles) for intervening releases.

1. Move the file content from the `Client/wwwroot/index.html` file to a new `Host` component file (`Host.razor`) created at the root of the `Client` project.

1. Make the following changes to the `Host.razor` file:

   Replace the `<title>` tag with the `HeadOutlet` component. Start by removing the `<title>` tag: 

   ```diff
   - <title>...</title>
   ```

   Add the `HeadOutlet` component to the `<head>` content with the interactive WebAssembly render mode:

   <!-- UPDATE 8.0 Value will simplify at RTM -->

   ```razor
   <HeadOutlet @rendermode="RenderMode.InteractiveWebAssembly" />
   ```

   Update the `blazor.webassembly.js` script to `blazor.web.js`:

   ```diff
   - <script src="_framework/blazor.webassembly.js"></script>
   + <script src="_framework/blazor.web.js"></script>
   ```

1. Remove the following line from `Client/Program.cs`:

   ```diff
   - builder.RootComponents.Add<HeadOutlet>("head::after");
   ```
   
1. Update `Server/Program.cs`:

   Add a `using` statement for the `Host` component at the top of the file.

   > [!NOTE]
   > In the following example, the project's namespace is `Net8BlazorWebAssembly.Client`. Adjust the namespace to match your project.

   ```csharp
   using Host = Net8BlazorWebAssembly.Client.Host;
   ```

   Add Razor component and interactive WebAssembly component services to the project. Call `AddRazorComponents` with a chained call to `AddInteractiveWebAssemblyComponents`:

   ```csharp
   builder.Services.AddRazorComponents()
       .AddInteractiveWebAssemblyComponents();
   ```

   Add [Antiforgery Middleware](xref:blazor/security/index#antiforgery-support) to the request processing pipeline immediately after the call to `app.UseRouting`. If there are calls to `app.UseRouting` and `app.UseEndpoints`, the call to `app.UseAntiforgery` must go between them. Calls to `app.UseAntiforgery` must be placed after calls to `app.UseAuthentication` and `app.UseAuthorization`.

   ```csharp
   app.UseAntiforgery();
   ```

   Remove the following line:
   
   ```diff
   - app.UseBlazorFrameworkFiles();
   ```

   Remove the following line:
   
   ```diff
   - app.MapFallbackToFile("index.html");
   ```
     
   Replace the preceding line with with a call to `MapRazorComponents`, supplying the `Host` component as the root component type, and add a chained call to `AddInteractiveWebAssemblyRenderMode`:
   
   ```csharp
   app.MapRazorComponents<Host>()
       .AddInteractiveWebAssemblyRenderMode();
   ```

1. To enable prerendering:

   Update the app's Razor components to support prerendering from the server.

   <!-- What's in the sample is highly template-specific (the weather data example) 
        and won't match what they need to do generally. What do we tell devs
        for this step? -->

   In the `Client/Host.razor` file, remove the following markup:
   
   ```diff
   - <div id="app">
   -     <svg class="loading-progress">
   -         <circle r="40%" cx="50%" cy="50%" />
   -         <circle r="40%" cx="50%" cy="50%" />
   -     </svg>
   -     <div class="loading-progress-text"></div>
   - </div>
   ```
     
   Replace the preceding markup with the following line:
     
   ```razor
   <App @rendermode="RenderMode.WebAssembly" />
   ```

1. Run the solution from the `Server` project:

   For Visual Studio, confirm that the `Server` project is selected in **Solution Explorer** when running the app.
   
   If using the .NET CLI, run the project from the `Server` project's folder.

## Update Docker images

For apps using Docker, update your *Dockerfile* `FROM` statements and scripts. Use a base image that includes the ASP.NET Core 8.0 runtime. Consider the following `docker pull` command difference between ASP.NET Core 7.0 and 8.0:

```diff
- docker pull mcr.microsoft.com/dotnet/aspnet:7.0
+ docker pull mcr.microsoft.com/dotnet/aspnet:8.0
```

## Review breaking changes

For breaking changes from .NET Core .NET 7.0 to 8.0, see [Breaking changes in .NET 8](/dotnet/core/compatibility/8.0), which includes [ASP.NET Core](/dotnet/core/compatibility/8.0#aspnet-core) and [Entity Framework Core](/dotnet/core/compatibility/8.0#entity-framework-core) sections.
