aspnetcore/security/authentication/community.md, before:

---
title: Community OSS authentication options for ASP.NET Core
author: rick-anderson
description: Discover open-source authentication options for ASP.NET Core.
ms.author: riande
ms.date: 10/28/2019
uid: security/authentication/community
---
# Community OSS authentication options for ASP.NET Core

This page contains community-provided, open source authentication options for ASP.NET Core. This page is periodically updated as new providers become available.

## OSS authentication providers

| Name | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
| [IdentityServer](https://duendesoftware.com/products/identityserver) | IdentityServer is an OpenID Connect and OAuth 2.0 framework for ASP.NET Core. |
| [Gluu Server](https://gluu.org/) | Enterprise ready, open source software for identity, access management (IAM), and single sign-on (SSO). For more information, see the [Gluu Product Documentation](https://gluu.org/docs/). |
| [OpenIddict](https://github.com/openiddict/openiddict-core) | Versatile OpenID Connect stack for ASP.NET Core 2.1/3.1/5.0/6.0 and Microsoft.Owin 4.1 (compatible with ASP.NET 4.6.1). |
| [AspNet.Security.OAuth.Providers](https://github.com/aspnet-contrib/AspNet.Security.OAuth.Providers)  | A collection of security middleware for ASP.NET Core apps to support social authentication  |
| [AspNet.Security.OpenId.Providers](https://github.com/aspnet-contrib/AspNet.Security.OpenId.Providers) | A collection of security middleware for ASP.NET Core apps to support OpenID 2.0 authentication providers like [Steam](https://steampowered.com/) |

To add a provider, [edit this page](https://github.com/login?return_to=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fdotnet%2FAspNetCore.Docs%2Fedit%2Fmain%2Faspnetcore%2Fsecurity%2Fauthentication%2Fcommunity.md).

Commit message:

Add Authentik to OSS providers list.

aspnetcore/security/authentication/community.md, after:

---
title: Community OSS authentication options for ASP.NET Core
author: rick-anderson
description: Discover open-source authentication options for ASP.NET Core.
ms.author: riande
ms.date: 10/28/2019
uid: security/authentication/community
---
# Community OSS authentication options for ASP.NET Core

This page contains community-provided, open source authentication options for ASP.NET Core. This page is periodically updated as new providers become available.

## OSS authentication providers

| Name | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
| [IdentityServer](https://duendesoftware.com/products/identityserver) | IdentityServer is an OpenID Connect and OAuth 2.0 framework for ASP.NET Core. |
| [Gluu Server](https://gluu.org/) | Enterprise ready, open source software for identity, access management (IAM), and single sign-on (SSO). For more information, see the [Gluu Product Documentation](https://gluu.org/docs/). |
| [OpenIddict](https://github.com/openiddict/openiddict-core) | Versatile OpenID Connect stack for ASP.NET Core 2.1/3.1/5.0/6.0 and Microsoft.Owin 4.1 (compatible with ASP.NET 4.6.1). |
| [AspNet.Security.OAuth.Providers](https://github.com/aspnet-contrib/AspNet.Security.OAuth.Providers)  | A collection of security middleware for ASP.NET Core apps to support social authentication  |
| [AspNet.Security.OpenId.Providers](https://github.com/aspnet-contrib/AspNet.Security.OpenId.Providers) | A collection of security middleware for ASP.NET Core apps to support OpenID 2.0 authentication providers like [Steam](https://steampowered.com/) |
  [Authentik](https://goauthentik.io)|Authentik is an open-source Identity Provider focused on flexibility and versatility|

To add a provider, [edit this page](https://github.com/login?return_to=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fdotnet%2FAspNetCore.Docs%2Fedit%2Fmain%2Faspnetcore%2Fsecurity%2Fauthentication%2Fcommunity.md).
