---
title: Use multiple environments in ASP.NET Core
author: tdykstra
description: Learn how to control app behavior across multiple environments in ASP.NET Core apps.
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-3.1'
ms.author: riande
ms.custom: mvc
ms.date: 01/13/2022
uid: fundamentals/environments
---
# Use multiple environments in ASP.NET Core

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-6.0"

By [Rick Anderson](https://twitter.com/RickAndMSFT) and [Kirk Larkin](https://twitter.com/serpent5)

ASP.NET Core configures app behavior based on the runtime environment using an environment variable.

## Environments

:::moniker-end
:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-6.0 < aspnetcore-7.0"
To determine the runtime environment, ASP.NET Core reads from the following environment variables:

1. [DOTNET_ENVIRONMENT](xref:fundamentals/configuration/index#default-host-configuration)
1. `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` when the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.WebApplication.CreateBuilder%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> method is called. The default ASP.NET Core web app templates call `WebApplication.CreateBuilder`. The `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` value overrides `DOTNET_ENVIRONMENT`.

:::moniker-end

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-7.0"
To determine the runtime environment, ASP.NET Core reads from the following environment variables:

1. [DOTNET_ENVIRONMENT](xref:fundamentals/configuration/index#default-host-configuration)
1. `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` when the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.WebApplication.CreateBuilder%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> method is called. The default ASP.NET Core web app templates call `WebApplication.CreateBuilder`. The `DOTNET_ENVIRONMENT` value overrides `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` when `WebApplicationBuilder` is used. For other hosts, such as `ConfigureWebHostDefaults` and `WebHost.CreateDefaultBuilder`, `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` has higher precedence.

:::moniker-end

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-6.0"

`IHostEnvironment.EnvironmentName` can be set to any value, but the following values are provided by the framework:

* <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting.Environments.Development>: The [launchSettings.json](#lsj) file sets `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` to `Development` on the local machine.
* <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting.Environments.Staging>
* <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting.Environments.Production>: The default if `DOTNET_ENVIRONMENT` and `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` have not been set.

The following code:

* Is similar to the code generated by the ASP.NET Core templates.
* Enables the [Developer Exception Page](xref:fundamentals/error-handling#developer-exception-page) when `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` is set to `Development`. This is done automatically by the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.WebApplication.CreateBuilder%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> method.
* Calls <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.ExceptionHandlerExtensions.UseExceptionHandler%2A> when the value of `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` is anything other than `Development`.
* Provides an <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting.IWebHostEnvironment> instance in the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.WebApplication.Environment> property of `WebApplication`.

:::code language="csharp" source="environments/samples/6.x/EnvironmentsSample/Program.cs" id="First":::

The [Environment Tag Helper](xref:mvc/views/tag-helpers/builtin-th/environment-tag-helper) uses the value of [IHostEnvironment.EnvironmentName](xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting.IHostEnvironment.EnvironmentName) to include or exclude markup in the element:

:::code language="cshtml" source="environments/samples/6.x/EnvironmentsSample/Pages/About.cshtml" id="snippet_Environment":::

The [About page](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/tree/main/aspnetcore/fundamentals/environments/samples/6.x/EnvironmentsSample/Pages/About.cshtml) from the [sample code](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/tree/main/aspnetcore/fundamentals/environments/samples/6.x) includes the preceding markup and displays the value of `IWebHostEnvironment.EnvironmentName`.

On Windows and macOS, environment variables and values aren't case-sensitive. Linux environment variables and values are case-sensitive by default.

### Create EnvironmentsSample

The [sample code](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/tree/main/aspnetcore/fundamentals/environments/samples/6.x) used in this article is based on a Razor Pages project named *EnvironmentsSample*.

The following .NET CLI commands create and run a web app named *EnvironmentsSample*:

```bash
dotnet new webapp -o EnvironmentsSample
cd EnvironmentsSample
dotnet run --verbosity normal
```

When the app runs, it displays output similar to the following:

:::code language="bash" source="environments/samples/6.x/dnr-verbose.txt" highlight="8,10":::

### Set environment on the command line

Use the `--environment` flag to set the environment. For example:

```dotnetcli
dotnet run --environment Production
```

The preceding command sets the environment to `Production` and displays output similar to the following in the command window:

:::code language="bash" source="environments/samples/6.x/dnr-prod.txt" highlight="8":::

<a name="lsj"></a>

### Development and launchSettings.json

The development environment can enable features that shouldn't be exposed in production. For example, the ASP.NET Core project templates enable the [Developer Exception Page](xref:fundamentals/error-handling#developer-exception-page) in the development environment. Because of the performance cost, scope validation and dependency validation only happens in development. <!--https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/issues/22626-->

The environment for local machine development can be set in the *Properties\launchSettings.json* file of the project. Environment values set in `launchSettings.json` override values set in the system environment.

The `launchSettings.json` file:

* Is only used on the local development machine.
* Is not deployed.
* Contains profile settings.

The following JSON shows the `launchSettings.json` file for an ASP.NET Core web project named *EnvironmentsSample* created with Visual Studio or `dotnet new`:

:::code language="json" source="environments/samples/6.x/EnvironmentsSample/Properties/launchSettingsCopy.json":::

The preceding JSON contains two profiles:

* `EnvironmentsSample`: The profile name is the project name. As the first profile listed, this profile is used by default. The `"commandName"` key has the value `"Project"`, therefore, the [Kestrel web server](xref:fundamentals/servers/kestrel) is launched.

* `IIS Express`: The `"commandName"` key has the value `"IISExpress"`, therefore, [IISExpress](/iis/extensions/introduction-to-iis-express/iis-express-overview) is the web server.

You can set the launch profile to the project or any other profile included in `launchSettings.json`. For example, in the image below, selecting the project name launches the [Kestrel web server](xref:fundamentals/servers/kestrel).

:::image source="environments/_static/iisx2.png" alt-text="IIS Express launch on menu":::

The value of `commandName` can specify the web server to launch. `commandName` can be any one of the following:

* `IISExpress` : Launches IIS Express.
* `IIS` : No web server launched. IIS is expected to be available.
* `Project` : Launches Kestrel.

The Visual Studio 2022 project properties **Debug / General** tab provides an **Open debug launch profiles UI** link. This link opens a **Launch Profiles** dialog that lets you edit the environment variable settings in the `launchSettings.json` file. You can also open the **Launch Profiles** dialog from the **Debug** menu by selecting **\<project name> Debug Properties**. Changes made to project profiles may not take effect until the web server is restarted. Kestrel must be restarted before it can detect changes made to its environment.

:::image source="environments/_static/launch-profiles.png" alt-text="Project Properties Setting Environment variables":::

The following `launchSettings.json` file contains multiple profiles:

:::code language="json" source="environments/samples/6.x/EnvironmentsSample/Properties/launchSettings.json":::

Profiles can be selected:

* From the Visual Studio UI.
* Using the [`dotnet run`](/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-run) CLI command with the `--launch-profile` option set to the profile's name. *This approach only supports Kestrel profiles.*

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet run --launch-profile "EnvironmentsSample"
  ```

> [!WARNING]
> `launchSettings.json` shouldn't store secrets. The [Secret Manager tool](xref:security/app-secrets) can be used to store secrets for local development.

When using [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/), environment variables can be set in the `.vscode/launch.json` file. The following example sets several [environment variables for Host configuration values](xref:fundamentals/host/web-host#host-configuration-values):

:::code language="json" source="environments/samples/6.x/EnvironmentsSample/.vscode/launch.json" range="4-10,32-38":::

The `.vscode/launch.json` file is used only by Visual Studio Code.

### Production

The production environment should be configured to maximize security, [performance](xref:performance/overview), and application robustness. Some common settings that differ from development include:

* [Caching](xref:performance/caching/memory).
* Client-side resources are bundled, minified, and potentially served from a CDN.
* Diagnostic error pages disabled.
* Friendly error pages enabled.
* Production [logging](xref:fundamentals/logging/index) and monitoring enabled. For example, using [Application Insights](/azure/application-insights/app-insights-asp-net-core).

## Set the environment by setting an environment variable

It's often useful to set a specific environment for testing with an environment variable or platform setting. If the environment isn't set, it defaults to `Production`, which disables most debugging features. The method for setting the environment depends on the operating system.

When the host is built, the last environment setting read by the app determines the app's environment. The app's environment can't be changed while the app is running.

The [About page](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/tree/main/aspnetcore/fundamentals/environments/samples/6.x/EnvironmentsSample/Pages/About.cshtml) from the [sample code](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/tree/main/aspnetcore/fundamentals/environments/samples/6.x) displays the value of `IWebHostEnvironment.EnvironmentName`.

### Azure App Service

<xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting.Environments.Production> is the default value if `DOTNET_ENVIRONMENT` and `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` have not been set. Apps deployed to Azure are `Production` by default.

To set the environment in an [Azure App Service](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/app-service/) app by using the portal:

1. Select the app from the **App Services** page.
1. In the **Settings** group, select **Configuration**.
1. In the **Application settings** tab, select **New application setting**.
1. In the **Add/Edit application setting** window, provide `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` for the **Name**. For **Value**, provide the environment (for example, `Staging`).
1. Select the **Deployment slot setting** checkbox if you wish the environment setting to remain with the current slot when deployment slots are swapped. For more information, see [Set up staging environments in Azure App Service](/azure/app-service/web-sites-staged-publishing) in the Azure documentation.
1. Select **OK** to close the **Add/Edit application setting** dialog.
1. Select **Save** at the top of the **Configuration** page.

Azure App Service automatically restarts the app after an app setting is added, changed, or deleted in the Azure portal.

### Windows - Set environment variable for a process

Environment values in `launchSettings.json` override values set in the system environment.

To set the `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` for the current session when the app is started using [dotnet run](/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-run), use the following commands at a command prompt or in PowerShell:

```console
set ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT=Staging
dotnet run --no-launch-profile
```

```powershell
$Env:ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT = "Staging"
dotnet run --no-launch-profile
```

### Windows - Set environment variable globally

The preceding commands set `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` only for processes launched from that command window.

To set the value globally in Windows, use either of the following approaches:

* Open the **Control Panel** > **System** > **Advanced system settings** and add or edit the `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` value:

  :::image source="environments/_static/systemsetting_environment.png" alt-text="System Advanced Properties":::

  :::image source="environments/_static/windows_aspnetcore_environment.png" alt-text="ASPNET Core Environment Variable":::

* Open an administrative command prompt and use the `setx` command or open an administrative PowerShell command prompt and use `[Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable`:

  * ```console
    setx ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT Staging /M
    ```

    The `/M` switch sets the environment variable at the system level. If the `/M` switch isn't used, the environment variable is set for the user account.

  * ```powershell
    [Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable("ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT", "Staging", "Machine")
    ```

    The `Machine` option sets the environment variable at the system level. If the option value is changed to `User`, the environment variable is set for the user account.

When the `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` environment variable is set globally, it takes effect for `dotnet run` in any command window opened after the value is set. Environment values in `launchSettings.json` override values set in the system environment.

### Windows - Use web.config

To set the `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` environment variable with `web.config`, see the *Set environment variables* section of <xref:host-and-deploy/iis/web-config#set-environment-variables>.

### Windows - IIS deployments

Include the `<EnvironmentName>` property in the [publish profile (.pubxml)](xref:host-and-deploy/visual-studio-publish-profiles) or project file. This approach sets the environment in *web.config* when the project is published:

```xml
<PropertyGroup>
  <EnvironmentName>Development</EnvironmentName>
</PropertyGroup>
```

To set the `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` environment variable for an app running in an isolated Application Pool (supported on IIS 10.0 or later), see the *AppCmd.exe command* section of [Environment Variables &lt;environmentVariables&gt;](/iis/configuration/system.applicationHost/applicationPools/add/environmentVariables/#appcmdexe). When the `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` environment variable is set for an app pool, its value overrides a setting at the system level.

When hosting an app in IIS and adding or changing the `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` environment variable, use one of the following approaches to have the new value picked up by apps:

* Execute `net stop was /y` followed by `net start w3svc` from a command prompt.
* Restart the server.

### macOS

Setting the current environment for macOS can be performed in-line when running the app:

```bash
ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT=Staging dotnet run
```

Alternatively, set the environment with `export` prior to running the app:

```bash
export ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT=Staging
```

Machine-level environment variables are set in the *.bashrc* or *.bash_profile* file. Edit the file using any text editor. Add the following statement:

```bash
export ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT=Staging
```

### Linux

For Linux distributions, use the `export` command at a command prompt for session-based variable settings and the *bash_profile* file for machine-level environment settings.

## Set the environment in code

To set the environment in code, use <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.WebApplicationOptions.EnvironmentName?displayProperty=nameWithType> when creating <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.WebApplicationBuilder>, as shown in the following example:

:::code language="csharp" source="environments/samples/6.x/EnvironmentsSample/Program.cs" id="SetInCode" highlight="1-4":::

For more information, see <xref:fundamentals/host/generic-host#environmentname>.

## Configuration by environment

To load configuration by environment, see <xref:fundamentals/configuration/index#json-configuration-provider>.

## Configure services and middleware by environment

Use <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.WebApplicationBuilder.Environment?displayProperty=nameWithType> or <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.WebApplication.Environment?displayProperty=nameWithType> to conditionally add services or middleware depending on the current environment. The project template includes an example of code that adds middleware only when the current environment isn't Development:

:::code language="csharp" source="environments/samples/6.x/EnvironmentsSample/Program.cs" id="First" highlight="9-14":::

The highlighted code checks the current environment while building the request pipeline. To check the current environment while configuring services, use `builder.Environment` instead of `app.Environment`.

## Additional resources

* [View or download sample code](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/tree/main/aspnetcore/fundamentals/environments/samples) ([how to download](xref:index#how-to-download-a-sample))
* <xref:fundamentals/startup>
* <xref:fundamentals/configuration/index>
* <xref:blazor/fundamentals/environments>

:::moniker-end

:::moniker range="< aspnetcore-6.0"

By [Rick Anderson](https://twitter.com/RickAndMSFT) and [Kirk Larkin](https://twitter.com/serpent5)

ASP.NET Core configures app behavior based on the runtime environment using an environment variable.

## Environments

To determine the runtime environment, ASP.NET Core reads from the following environment variables:

1. [DOTNET_ENVIRONMENT](xref:fundamentals/configuration/index#default-host-configuration)
1. `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` when <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting.GenericHostBuilderExtensions.ConfigureWebHostDefaults%2A> is called. The default ASP.NET Core web app templates call `ConfigureWebHostDefaults`. The `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` value overrides `DOTNET_ENVIRONMENT`.

`IHostEnvironment.EnvironmentName` can be set to any value, but the following values are provided by the framework:

* <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting.Environments.Development> : The [launchSettings.json](#lsj) file sets `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` to `Development` on the local machine.
* <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting.Environments.Staging>
* <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting.Environments.Production> : The default if `DOTNET_ENVIRONMENT` and `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` have not been set.

The following code:

* Calls <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.DeveloperExceptionPageExtensions.UseDeveloperExceptionPage%2A> when `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` is set to `Development`.
* Calls <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.ExceptionHandlerExtensions.UseExceptionHandler%2A> when the value of `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` is set to `Staging`, `Production`, or  `Staging_2`.
* Injects <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting.IWebHostEnvironment> into `Startup.Configure`. This approach is useful when the app only requires adjusting `Startup.Configure` for a few environments with minimal code differences per environment.
* Is similar to the code generated by the ASP.NET Core templates.

:::code language="csharp" source="environments/samples/3.x/EnvironmentsSample/Startup.cs" id="snippet":::

The [Environment Tag Helper](xref:mvc/views/tag-helpers/builtin-th/environment-tag-helper) uses the value of [IHostEnvironment.EnvironmentName](xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting.IHostEnvironment.EnvironmentName) to include or exclude markup in the element:

:::code language="cshtml" source="environments/samples/3.x/EnvironmentsSample/Pages/About.cshtml" id="snippet_Environment":::

The [About page](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/tree/main/aspnetcore/fundamentals/environments/samples/3.x/EnvironmentsSample/Pages/About.cshtml) from the [sample code](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/tree/main/aspnetcore/fundamentals/environments/samples/3.x) includes the preceding markup and displays the value of `IWebHostEnvironment.EnvironmentName`.

On Windows and macOS, environment variables and values aren't case-sensitive. Linux environment variables and values are **case-sensitive** by default.

### Create EnvironmentsSample

The [sample code](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/tree/main/aspnetcore/fundamentals/environments/samples/3.x) used in this document is based on a Razor Pages project named *EnvironmentsSample*.

The following code creates and runs a web app named *EnvironmentsSample*:

```bash
dotnet new webapp -o EnvironmentsSample
cd EnvironmentsSample
dotnet run --verbosity normal
```

When the app runs, it displays some of the following output:

```bash
Using launch settings from c:\tmp\EnvironmentsSample\Properties\launchSettings.json
info: Microsoft.Hosting.Lifetime[0]
      Now listening on: https://localhost:5001
info: Microsoft.Hosting.Lifetime[0]
      Application started. Press Ctrl+C to shut down.
info: Microsoft.Hosting.Lifetime[0]
      Hosting environment: Development
info: Microsoft.Hosting.Lifetime[0]
      Content root path: c:\tmp\EnvironmentsSample
```

<a name="lsj"></a>

### Development and launchSettings.json

The development environment can enable features that shouldn't be exposed in production. For example, the ASP.NET Core templates enable the [Developer Exception Page](xref:fundamentals/error-handling#developer-exception-page) in the development environment.

The environment for local machine development can be set in the *Properties\launchSettings.json* file of the project. Environment values set in `launchSettings.json` override values set in the system environment.

The `launchSettings.json` file:

* Is only used on the local development machine.
* Is not deployed.
* contains profile settings.

The following JSON shows the `launchSettings.json` file for an ASP.NET Core web project named *EnvironmentsSample* created with Visual Studio or `dotnet new`:

:::code language="json" source="environments/samples/3.x/EnvironmentsSample/Properties/launchSettingsCopy.json":::

The preceding markup contains two profiles:

* `IIS Express`: The default profile used when launching the app from Visual Studio. The `"commandName"` key has the value `"IISExpress"`, therefore, [IISExpress](/iis/extensions/introduction-to-iis-express/iis-express-overview) is the web server. You can set the launch profile to the project or any other profile included. For example, in the image below, selecting the project name launches the [Kestrel web server](xref:fundamentals/servers/kestrel).

  :::image source="environments/_static/iisx2.png" alt-text="IIS Express launch on menu":::
* `EnvironmentsSample`: The profile name is the project name. This profile is used by default when launching the app with `dotnet run`.  The `"commandName"` key has the value `"Project"`, therefore, the [Kestrel web server](xref:fundamentals/servers/kestrel) is launched.

The value of `commandName` can specify the web server to launch. `commandName` can be any one of the following:

* `IISExpress` : Launches IIS Express.
* `IIS` : No web server launched. IIS is expected to be available.
* `Project` : Launches Kestrel.

The Visual Studio project properties **Debug** tab provides a GUI to edit the `launchSettings.json` file. Changes made to project profiles may not take effect until the web server is restarted. Kestrel must be restarted before it can detect changes made to its environment.

:::image source="environments/_static/project-properties-debug.png" alt-text="Project Properties Setting Environment variables":::

The following `launchSettings.json` file contains multiple profiles:

:::code language="json" source="environments/samples/3.x/EnvironmentsSample/Properties/launchSettings.json":::

Profiles can be selected:

* From the Visual Studio UI.
* Using the [`dotnet run`](/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-run) command in a command shell with the `--launch-profile` option set to the profile's name. *This approach only supports Kestrel profiles.*

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet run --launch-profile "SampleApp"
  ```

> [!WARNING]
> `launchSettings.json` shouldn't store secrets. The [Secret Manager tool](xref:security/app-secrets) can be used to store secrets for local development.

When using [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/), environment variables can be set in the `.vscode/launch.json` file. The following example sets several [Host configuration values environment variables](xref:fundamentals/host/web-host#host-configuration-values):

:::code language="json" source="environments/samples/3.x/EnvironmentsSample/.vscode/launch.json" range="4-10,32-38":::

The `.vscode/launch.json` file is only used by Visual Studio Code.

### Production

The production environment should be configured to maximize security, [performance](xref:performance/overview), and application robustness. Some common settings that differ from development include:

* [Caching](xref:performance/caching/memory).
* Client-side resources are bundled, minified, and potentially served from a CDN.
* Diagnostic error pages disabled.
* Friendly error pages enabled.
* Production [logging](xref:fundamentals/logging/index) and monitoring enabled. For example, using [Application Insights](/azure/application-insights/app-insights-asp-net-core).

## Set the environment

It's often useful to set a specific environment for testing with an environment variable or platform setting. If the environment isn't set, it defaults to `Production`, which disables most debugging features. The method for setting the environment depends on the operating system.

When the host is built, the last environment setting read by the app determines the app's environment. The app's environment can't be changed while the app is running.

The [About page](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/tree/main/aspnetcore/fundamentals/environments/samples/3.x/EnvironmentsSample/Pages/About.cshtml) from the [sample code](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/tree/main/aspnetcore/fundamentals/environments/samples/3.x) displays the value of `IWebHostEnvironment.EnvironmentName`.

### Azure App Service

<xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting.Environments.Production> is the default value if `DOTNET_ENVIRONMENT` and `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` have not been set. Apps deployed to azure are `Production` by default.

To set the environment in [Azure App Service](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/app-service/), perform the following steps:

1. Select the app from the **App Services** blade.
1. In the **Settings** group, select the **Configuration** blade.
1. In the **Application settings** tab, select **New application setting**.
1. In the **Add/Edit application setting** window, provide `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` for the **Name**. For **Value**, provide the environment (for example, `Staging`).
1. Select the **Deployment slot setting** checkbox if you wish the environment setting to remain with the current slot when deployment slots are swapped. For more information, see [Set up staging environments in Azure App Service](/azure/app-service/web-sites-staged-publishing) in the Azure documentation.
1. Select **OK** to close the **Add/Edit application setting** window.
1. Select **Save** at the top of the **Configuration** blade.

Azure App Service automatically restarts the app after an app setting is added, changed, or deleted in the Azure portal.

### Windows

Environment values in `launchSettings.json` override values set in the system environment.

To set the `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` for the current session when the app is started using [dotnet run](/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-run), the following commands are used:

**Command prompt**

```console
set ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT=Staging
dotnet run --no-launch-profile
```

**PowerShell**

```powershell
$Env:ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT = "Staging"
dotnet run --no-launch-profile
```

The preceding command sets `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` only for processes launched from that command window.

To set the value globally in Windows, use either of the following approaches:

* Open the **Control Panel** > **System** > **Advanced system settings** and add or edit the `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` value:

  :::image source="environments/_static/systemsetting_environment.png" alt-text="System Advanced Properties":::

  :::image source="environments/_static/windows_aspnetcore_environment.png" alt-text="ASPNET Core Environment Variable":::

* Open an administrative command prompt and use the `setx` command or open an administrative PowerShell command prompt and use `[Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable`:

  **Command prompt**

  ```console
  setx ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT Staging /M
  ```

  The `/M` switch indicates to set the environment variable at the system level. If the `/M` switch isn't used, the environment variable is set for the user account.

  **PowerShell**

  ```powershell
  [Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable("ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT", "Staging", "Machine")
  ```

  The `Machine` option value indicates to set the environment variable at the system level. If the option value is changed to `User`, the environment variable is set for the user account.

When the `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` environment variable is set globally, it takes effect for `dotnet run` in any command window opened after the value is set. Environment values in `launchSettings.json` override values set in the system environment.

**web.config**

To set the `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` environment variable with `web.config`, see the *Set environment variables* section of <xref:host-and-deploy/iis/web-config#set-environment-variables>.

**Project file or publish profile**

**For Windows IIS deployments:** Include the `<EnvironmentName>` property in the [publish profile (.pubxml)](xref:host-and-deploy/visual-studio-publish-profiles) or project file. This approach sets the environment in *web.config* when the project is published:

```xml
<PropertyGroup>
  <EnvironmentName>Development</EnvironmentName>
</PropertyGroup>
```

**Per IIS Application Pool**

To set the `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` environment variable for an app running in an isolated Application Pool (supported on IIS 10.0 or later), see the *AppCmd.exe command* section of the [Environment Variables &lt;environmentVariables&gt;](/iis/configuration/system.applicationHost/applicationPools/add/environmentVariables/#appcmdexe) topic. When the `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` environment variable is set for an app pool, its value overrides a setting at the system level.

When hosting an app in IIS and adding or changing the `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` environment variable, use any one of the following approaches to have the new value picked up by apps:

* Execute `net stop was /y` followed by `net start w3svc` from a command prompt.
* Restart the server.

#### macOS

Setting the current environment for macOS can be performed in-line when running the app:

```bash
ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT=Staging dotnet run
```

Alternatively, set the environment with `export` prior to running the app:

```bash
export ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT=Staging
```

Machine-level environment variables are set in the *.bashrc* or *.bash_profile* file. Edit the file using any text editor. Add the following statement:

```bash
export ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT=Staging
```

#### Linux

For Linux distributions, use the `export` command at a command prompt for session-based variable settings and *bash_profile* file for machine-level environment settings.

### Set the environment in code

Call <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting.HostingHostBuilderExtensions.UseEnvironment%2A> when building the host. See <xref:fundamentals/host/generic-host#environmentname>.

### Configuration by environment

To load configuration by environment, see <xref:fundamentals/configuration/index#json-configuration-provider>.

## Environment-based Startup class and methods

### Inject IWebHostEnvironment into the Startup class

Inject <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting.IWebHostEnvironment> into the `Startup` constructor. This approach is useful when the app requires configuring `Startup` for only a few environments with minimal code differences per environment.

In the following example:

* The environment is held in the `_env` field.
* `_env` is used in `ConfigureServices` and `Configure` to apply startup configuration based on the app's environment.

:::code language="csharp" source="environments/samples/3.x/EnvironmentsSample/StartupInject.cs" id="snippet" highlight="3-11":::

### Startup class conventions

When an ASP.NET Core app starts, the [Startup class](xref:fundamentals/startup) bootstraps the app. The app can define multiple `Startup` classes for different environments. The appropriate `Startup` class is selected at runtime. The class whose name suffix matches the current environment is prioritized. If a matching `Startup{EnvironmentName}` class isn't found, the `Startup` class is used. This approach is useful when the app requires configuring startup for several environments with many code differences per environment. Typical apps will not need this approach.

To implement environment-based `Startup` classes, create a `Startup{EnvironmentName}` classes and a fallback `Startup` class:

:::code language="csharp" source="environments/samples/3.x/EnvironmentsSample/StartupClassConventions.cs" id="snippet":::

Use the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting.HostingAbstractionsWebHostBuilderExtensions.UseStartup(Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting.IWebHostBuilder,System.String)> overload that accepts an assembly name:

:::code language="csharp" source="environments/samples/3.x/EnvironmentsSample/Program.cs" id="snippet":::

### Startup method conventions

[Configure](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting.StartupBase.Configure%2A) and [ConfigureServices](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting.StartupBase.ConfigureServices%2A) support environment-specific versions of the form `Configure<EnvironmentName>` and `Configure<EnvironmentName>Services`. If a matching `Configure<EnvironmentName>Services` or `Configure<EnvironmentName>` method isn't found, the `ConfigureServices` or `Configure` method is used, respectively. This approach is useful when the app requires configuring startup for several environments with many code differences per environment:

:::code language="csharp" source="environments/samples/3.x/EnvironmentsSample/StartupMethodConventions.cs" id="snippet":::

## Additional resources

* [View or download sample code](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/tree/main/aspnetcore/fundamentals/environments/samples) ([how to download](xref:index#how-to-download-a-sample))
* <xref:fundamentals/startup>
* <xref:fundamentals/configuration/index>
* <xref:blazor/fundamentals/environments>

:::moniker-end
