aspnetcore/blazor/fundamentals/startup.md, before:

---
title: ASP.NET Core Blazor startup
author: guardrex
description: Learn how to configure Blazor startup.
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-3.1'
ms.author: riande
ms.custom: mvc
ms.date: 11/08/2022
uid: blazor/fundamentals/startup
---
# ASP.NET Core Blazor startup

This article explains how to configure Blazor startup.

The Blazor startup process via the Blazor script (`blazor.{webassembly|server}.js`) is automatic and asynchronous. The Blazor `<script>` tag is found in the `wwwroot/index.html` file (Blazor WebAssembly) or `Pages/_Host.cshtml` file (Blazor Server), except for the ASP.NET Core 6.0 release of Blazor Server (`Pages/_Layout.cshtml`).

To manually start Blazor:

* Add an `autostart="false"` attribute and value to the Blazor `<script>` tag.
* Place a script that calls `Blazor.start()` after the Blazor `<script>` tag and inside the closing `</body>` tag.

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-6.0"

## JavaScript initializers

JavaScript (JS) initializers execute logic before and after a Blazor app loads. JS initializers are useful in the following scenarios:

* Customizing how a Blazor app loads.
* Initializing libraries before Blazor starts up.
* Configuring Blazor settings.

JS initializers are detected as part of the build process and imported automatically in Blazor apps. Use of JS initializers often removes the need to [manually trigger script functions from the app](xref:blazor/fundamentals/startup#chain-to-the-promise-that-results-from-a-manual-start) when using [Razor class libraries (RCLs)](xref:blazor/components/class-libraries).

To define a JS initializer, add a JS module to the project named `{NAME}.lib.module.js`, where the `{NAME}` placeholder is the assembly name, library name, or package identifier. Place the file in the project's web root, which is typically the `wwwroot` folder.

The module exports either or both of the following conventional functions:

* `beforeStart(options, extensions)`: Called before Blazor starts. For example, `beforeStart` is used to customize the loading process, logging level, and other options specific to the hosting model.
  * In Blazor WebAssembly, `beforeStart` receives the Blazor WebAssembly options (`options` in this section's example) and any extensions (`extensions` in this section's example) added during publishing. For example, options can specify the use of a custom [boot resource loader](xref:blazor/fundamentals/startup#load-boot-resources).
  * In Blazor Server, `beforeStart` receives SignalR circuit start options (`options` in this section's example).
  * In [`BlazorWebViews`](/mobile-blazor-bindings/walkthroughs/hybrid-hello-world#mainrazor-native-ui-page), no options are passed.
* `afterStarted`: Called after Blazor is ready to receive calls from JS. For example, `afterStarted` is used to initialize libraries by making JS interop calls and registering custom elements. The Blazor instance is passed to `afterStarted` as an argument (`blazor` in this section's example).

For the filename:

* If the JS initializers are consumed as a static asset in the project, use the format `{ASSEMBLY NAME}.lib.module.js`, where the `{ASSEMBLY NAME}` placeholder is the app's assembly name. For example, name the file `BlazorSample.lib.module.js` for a project with an assembly name of `BlazorSample`. Place the file in the app's `wwwroot` folder.
* If the JS initializers are consumed from an RCL, use the format `{LIBRARY NAME/PACKAGE ID}.lib.module.js`, where the `{LIBRARY NAME/PACKAGE ID}` placeholder is the project's library name or package identifier. For example, name the file `RazorClassLibrary1.lib.module.js` for an RCL with a package identifier of `RazorClassLibrary1`. Place the file in the library's `wwwroot` folder.

The following example demonstrates JS initializers that load custom scripts before and after Blazor has started:

```javascript
export function beforeStart(options, extensions) {
  var customScript = document.createElement('script');
  customScript.setAttribute('src', 'beforeStartScripts.js');
  document.head.appendChild(customScript);
}

export function afterStarted(blazor) {
  var customScript = document.createElement('script');
  customScript.setAttribute('src', 'afterStartedScripts.js');
  document.head.appendChild(customScript);
}
```

> [!NOTE]
> MVC and Razor Pages apps don't automatically load JS initializers. However, developer code can include a script to fetch the app's manifest and trigger the load of the JS initializers.

For an examples of JS initializers, see the following resources:

* <xref:blazor/host-and-deploy/webassembly-deployment-layout>
* [Basic Test App in the ASP.NET Core GitHub repository (`BasicTestApp.lib.module.js`)](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/main/src/Components/test/testassets/BasicTestApp/wwwroot/BasicTestApp.lib.module.js)

[!INCLUDE[](~/includes/aspnetcore-repo-ref-source-links.md)]

:::moniker-end

## Initialize Blazor when the document is ready

The following example starts Blazor when the document is ready:

```cshtml
<body>
    ...

    <script src="_framework/blazor.{webassembly|server}.js" autostart="false"></script>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener("DOMContentLoaded", function() {
        Blazor.start();
      });
    </script>
</body>
```

The `{webassembly|server}` placeholder in the preceding markup is either `webassembly` for a Blazor WebAssembly app (`blazor.webassembly.js`) or `server` for a Blazor Server app (`blazor.server.js`).

## Chain to the `Promise` that results from a manual start

To perform additional tasks, such as JS interop initialization, use [`then`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise/then) to chain to the [`Promise`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) that results from a manual Blazor app start:

```cshtml
<body>
    ...

    <script src="_framework/blazor.{webassembly|server}.js" autostart="false"></script>
    <script>
      Blazor.start().then(function () {
        ...
      });
    </script>
</body>
```

The `{webassembly|server}` placeholder in the preceding markup is either `webassembly` for a Blazor WebAssembly app (`blazor.webassembly.js`) or `server` for a Blazor Server app (`blazor.server.js`).

## Load boot resources

*This section only applies to Blazor WebAssembly apps.*

When a Blazor WebAssembly app loads in the browser, the app downloads boot resources from the server:

* JavaScript code to bootstrap the app
* .NET runtime and assemblies
* Locale specific data

Customize how these boot resources are loaded using the `loadBootResource` API. The `loadBootResource` function overrides the built-in boot resource loading mechanism. Use `loadBootResource` for the following scenarios:

* Load static resources, such as timezone data or `dotnet.wasm`, from a CDN.
* Load compressed assemblies using an HTTP request and decompress them on the client for hosts that don't support fetching compressed contents from the server.
* Alias resources to a different name by redirecting each `fetch` request to a new name.

> [!NOTE]
> External sources must return the required [Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)](https://www.w3.org/TR/cors/) headers for browsers to allow cross-origin resource loading. CDNs usually provide the required headers by default.

`loadBootResource` parameters appear in the following table.

| Parameter    | Description |
| ------------ | ----------- |
| `type`       | The type of the resource. Permissible types include: `assembly`, `pdb`, `dotnetjs`, `dotnetwasm`, and `timezonedata`. You only need to specify types for custom behaviors. Types not specified to `loadBootResource` are loaded by the framework per their default loading behaviors. |
| `name`       | The name of the resource. |
| `defaultUri` | The relative or absolute URI of the resource. |
| `integrity`  | The integrity string representing the expected content in the response. |

The `loadBootResource` function can return a URI string to override the loading process. In the following example, the following files from `bin/Release/net5.0/wwwroot/_framework` are served from a CDN at `https://cdn.example.com/blazorwebassembly/5.0.0/`:

* `dotnet.*.js`
* `dotnet.wasm`
* Timezone data

Inside the closing `</body>` tag of `wwwroot/index.html`:

```html
<script src="_framework/blazor.webassembly.js" autostart="false"></script>
<script>
  Blazor.start({
    loadBootResource: function (type, name, defaultUri, integrity) {
      console.log(`Loading: '${type}', '${name}', '${defaultUri}', '${integrity}'`);
      switch (type) {
        case 'dotnetjs':
        case 'dotnetwasm':
        case 'timezonedata':
          return `https://cdn.example.com/blazorwebassembly/5.0.0/${name}`;
      }
    }
  });
</script>
```

To customize more than just the URLs for boot resources, the `loadBootResource` function can call `fetch` directly and return the result. The following example adds a custom HTTP header to the outbound requests. To retain the default integrity checking behavior, pass through the `integrity` parameter.

Inside the closing `</body>` tag of `wwwroot/index.html`:

```html
<script src="_framework/blazor.webassembly.js" autostart="false"></script>
<script>
  Blazor.start({
    loadBootResource: function (type, name, defaultUri, integrity) {
      return fetch(defaultUri, { 
        cache: 'no-cache',
        integrity: integrity,
        headers: { 'Custom-Header': 'Custom Value' }
      });
    }
  });
</script>
```

The `loadBootResource` function can also return:

* `null`/`undefined`, which results in the default loading behavior.
* A [`Response` promise](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Response). For an example, see <xref:blazor/host-and-deploy/webassembly#compression>.

## Control headers in C# code

Control headers at startup in C# code using the following approaches.

In the following examples, a [Content Security Policy (CSP)](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy) is applied to the app via a CSP header. The `{POLICY STRING}` placeholder is the CSP policy string.

* In Blazor Server and prerendered Blazor WebAssembly apps, use [ASP.NET Core Middleware](xref:fundamentals/middleware/index) to control the headers collection.

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-6.0"

  In `Program.cs`:

  ```csharp
  app.Use(async (context, next) =>
  {
      context.Response.Headers.Add("Content-Security-Policy", "{POLICY STRING}");
      await next();
  });
  ```

:::moniker-end

:::moniker range="< aspnetcore-6.0"

  In `Startup.Configure` of `Startup.cs`:

  ```csharp
  app.Use(async (context, next) =>
  {
      context.Response.Headers.Add("Content-Security-Policy", "{POLICY STRING}");
      await next();
  });
  ```

:::moniker-end

  The preceding example uses inline middleware, but you can also create a custom middleware class and call the middleware with an extension method in `Program.cs`. For more information, see <xref:fundamentals/middleware/write>.

* In hosted Blazor WebAssembly apps that aren't prerendered, pass <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.StaticFileOptions> to <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.StaticFilesEndpointRouteBuilderExtensions.MapFallbackToFile%2A> that specifies response headers at the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.StaticFileOptions.OnPrepareResponse> stage.

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-6.0"

  In `Program.cs` of the **:::no-loc text="Server":::** project:

  ```csharp
  var staticFileOptions = new StaticFileOptions
  {
      OnPrepareResponse = context =>
      {
          context.Context.Response.Headers.Add("Content-Security-Policy", 
              "{POLICY STRING}");
      }
  };

  ...

  app.MapFallbackToFile("index.html", staticFileOptions);
  ```

:::moniker-end

:::moniker range="< aspnetcore-6.0"

  In `Startup.Configure` (`Startup.cs`) of the **:::no-loc text="Server":::** project:

  ```csharp
  var staticFileOptions = new StaticFileOptions
  {
      OnPrepareResponse = context =>
      {
          context.Context.Response.Headers.Add("Content-Security-Policy", 
              "{POLICY STRING}");
      }
  };

  ...

  app.MapFallbackToFile("index.html", staticFileOptions);
  ```

:::moniker-end

For more information on CSPs, see <xref:blazor/security/content-security-policy>.

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-7.0"

## Loading progress indicators

*This section only applies to Blazor WebAssembly apps.*

The Blazor WebAssembly project template contains Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) and text indicators that show the loading progress of the app.

The progress indicators are implemented with HTML and CSS using two CSS custom properties (variables) provided by Blazor WebAssembly:

* `--blazor-load-percentage`: The percentage of app files loaded.
* `--blazor-load-percentage-text`: The percentage of app files loaded, rounded to the nearest whole number.

Using the preceding CSS variables, you can create custom progress indicators that match the styling of your app.

In the following example:

* `resourcesLoaded` is an instantaneous count of the resources loaded during app startup.
* `totalResources` is the total number of resources to load.

```javascript
const percentage = resourcesLoaded / totalResources * 100;
document.documentElement.style.setProperty(
  '--blazor-load-percentage', `${percentage}%`);
document.documentElement.style.setProperty(
  '--blazor-load-percentage-text', `"${Math.floor(percentage)}%"`);
```

The default round progress indicator is implemented in HTML in the `wwwroot/index.html` file:

```html
<div id="app">
    <svg class="loading-progress">
        <circle r="40%" cx="50%" cy="50%" />
        <circle r="40%" cx="50%" cy="50%" />
    </svg>
    <div class="loading-progress-text"></div>
</div>
```

To review the Blazor WebAssembly project template markup and styling for the default progress indicators, see the ASP.NET Core reference source:

* [`wwwroot/index.html`](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/main/src/ProjectTemplates/Web.ProjectTemplates/content/ComponentsWebAssembly-CSharp/Client/wwwroot/index.html)
* [`app.css`](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/main/src/ProjectTemplates/Web.ProjectTemplates/content/ComponentsWebAssembly-CSharp/Client/wwwroot/css/app.css)

[!INCLUDE[](~/includes/aspnetcore-repo-ref-source-links.md)]

Instead of using the default round progress indicator, the following example shows how to implement a linear progress indicator.

Add the following styles to `wwwroot/css/app.css`:

```css
.linear-progress {
    background: silver;
    width: 50vw;
    margin: 20% auto;
    height: 1rem;
    border-radius: 10rem;
    overflow: hidden;
    position: relative;
}

.linear-progress:after {
    content: '';
    position: absolute;
    inset: 0;
    background: blue;
    scale: var(--blazor-load-percentage, 0%) 100%;
    transform-origin: left top;
    transition: scale ease-out 0.5s;
}
```

A CSS variable (`var(...)`) is used to pass the value of `--blazor-load-percentage` to the `scale` property of a blue pseudo-element that indicates the loading progress of the app's files. As the app loads, `--blazor-load-percentage` is updated automatically, which dynamically changes the progress indicator's visual representation.

In `wwwroot/index.html`, remove the default SVG round indicator in `<div id="app">...</div>` and replace it with the following markup:

```html
<div class="linear-progress"></div>
```

:::moniker-end

## Additional resources

* [Environments: Set the app's environment](xref:blazor/fundamentals/environments)
* [SignalR (includes sections on SignalR startup configuration)](xref:blazor/fundamentals/signalr)
* [Globalization and localization: Statically set the culture with `Blazor.start()` (*Blazor WebAssembly only*)](xref:blazor/globalization-localization?pivots=webassembly#statically-set-the-culture)
* [Host and deploy: Blazor WebAssembly: Compression](xref:blazor/host-and-deploy/webassembly#compression)

Commit message:

Cross-link JS initializer coverage

aspnetcore/blazor/fundamentals/startup.md, after:

---
title: ASP.NET Core Blazor startup
author: guardrex
description: Learn how to configure Blazor startup.
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-3.1'
ms.author: riande
ms.custom: mvc
ms.date: 11/08/2022
uid: blazor/fundamentals/startup
---
# ASP.NET Core Blazor startup

This article explains how to configure Blazor startup.

The Blazor startup process via the Blazor script (`blazor.{webassembly|server}.js`) is automatic and asynchronous. The Blazor `<script>` tag is found in the `wwwroot/index.html` file (Blazor WebAssembly) or `Pages/_Host.cshtml` file (Blazor Server), except for the ASP.NET Core 6.0 release of Blazor Server (`Pages/_Layout.cshtml`).

To manually start Blazor:

* Add an `autostart="false"` attribute and value to the Blazor `<script>` tag.
* Place a script that calls `Blazor.start()` after the Blazor `<script>` tag and inside the closing `</body>` tag.

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-6.0"

## JavaScript initializers

JavaScript (JS) initializers execute logic before and after a Blazor app loads. JS initializers are useful in the following scenarios:

* Customizing how a Blazor app loads.
* Initializing libraries before Blazor starts up.
* Configuring Blazor settings.

JS initializers are detected as part of the build process and imported automatically in Blazor apps. Use of JS initializers often removes the need to [manually trigger script functions from the app](xref:blazor/fundamentals/startup#chain-to-the-promise-that-results-from-a-manual-start) when using [Razor class libraries (RCLs)](xref:blazor/components/class-libraries).

To define a JS initializer, add a JS module to the project named `{NAME}.lib.module.js`, where the `{NAME}` placeholder is the assembly name, library name, or package identifier. Place the file in the project's web root, which is typically the `wwwroot` folder.

The module exports either or both of the following conventional functions:

* `beforeStart(options, extensions)`: Called before Blazor starts. For example, `beforeStart` is used to customize the loading process, logging level, and other options specific to the hosting model.
  * In Blazor WebAssembly, `beforeStart` receives the Blazor WebAssembly options (`options` in this section's example) and any extensions (`extensions` in this section's example) added during publishing. For example, options can specify the use of a custom [boot resource loader](xref:blazor/fundamentals/startup#load-boot-resources).
  * In Blazor Server, `beforeStart` receives SignalR circuit start options (`options` in this section's example).
  * In [`BlazorWebViews`](/mobile-blazor-bindings/walkthroughs/hybrid-hello-world#mainrazor-native-ui-page), no options are passed.
* `afterStarted`: Called after Blazor is ready to receive calls from JS. For example, `afterStarted` is used to initialize libraries by making JS interop calls and registering custom elements. The Blazor instance is passed to `afterStarted` as an argument (`blazor` in this section's example).

For the filename:

* If the JS initializers are consumed as a static asset in the project, use the format `{ASSEMBLY NAME}.lib.module.js`, where the `{ASSEMBLY NAME}` placeholder is the app's assembly name. For example, name the file `BlazorSample.lib.module.js` for a project with an assembly name of `BlazorSample`. Place the file in the app's `wwwroot` folder.
* If the JS initializers are consumed from an RCL, use the format `{LIBRARY NAME/PACKAGE ID}.lib.module.js`, where the `{LIBRARY NAME/PACKAGE ID}` placeholder is the project's library name or package identifier. For example, name the file `RazorClassLibrary1.lib.module.js` for an RCL with a package identifier of `RazorClassLibrary1`. Place the file in the library's `wwwroot` folder.

The following example demonstrates JS initializers that load custom scripts before and after Blazor has started:

```javascript
export function beforeStart(options, extensions) {
  var customScript = document.createElement('script');
  customScript.setAttribute('src', 'beforeStartScripts.js');
  document.head.appendChild(customScript);
}

export function afterStarted(blazor) {
  var customScript = document.createElement('script');
  customScript.setAttribute('src', 'afterStartedScripts.js');
  document.head.appendChild(customScript);
}
```

> [!NOTE]
> MVC and Razor Pages apps don't automatically load JS initializers. However, developer code can include a script to fetch the app's manifest and trigger the load of the JS initializers.

For an examples of JS initializers, see the following resources:

* <xref:blazor/host-and-deploy/webassembly-deployment-layout>
* [Basic Test App in the ASP.NET Core GitHub repository (`BasicTestApp.lib.module.js`)](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/main/src/Components/test/testassets/BasicTestApp/wwwroot/BasicTestApp.lib.module.js)

[!INCLUDE[](~/includes/aspnetcore-repo-ref-source-links.md)]

:::moniker-end

## Initialize Blazor when the document is ready

The following example starts Blazor when the document is ready:

```cshtml
<body>
    ...

    <script src="_framework/blazor.{webassembly|server}.js" autostart="false"></script>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener("DOMContentLoaded", function() {
        Blazor.start();
      });
    </script>
</body>
```

The `{webassembly|server}` placeholder in the preceding markup is either `webassembly` for a Blazor WebAssembly app (`blazor.webassembly.js`) or `server` for a Blazor Server app (`blazor.server.js`).

## Chain to the `Promise` that results from a manual start

To perform additional tasks, such as JS interop initialization, use [`then`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise/then) to chain to the [`Promise`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) that results from a manual Blazor app start:

```cshtml
<body>
    ...

    <script src="_framework/blazor.{webassembly|server}.js" autostart="false"></script>
    <script>
      Blazor.start().then(function () {
        ...
      });
    </script>
</body>
```

The `{webassembly|server}` placeholder in the preceding markup is either `webassembly` for a Blazor WebAssembly app (`blazor.webassembly.js`) or `server` for a Blazor Server app (`blazor.server.js`).

> [!NOTE]
> For a library to automatically execute additional tasks after Blazor has started, use a [JavaScript initializer](#javaScript-initializers). Use of a JS initializer doesn't require the consumer of the library chain JS calls to Blazor's manual start.

## Load boot resources

*This section only applies to Blazor WebAssembly apps.*

When a Blazor WebAssembly app loads in the browser, the app downloads boot resources from the server:

* JavaScript code to bootstrap the app
* .NET runtime and assemblies
* Locale specific data

Customize how these boot resources are loaded using the `loadBootResource` API. The `loadBootResource` function overrides the built-in boot resource loading mechanism. Use `loadBootResource` for the following scenarios:

* Load static resources, such as timezone data or `dotnet.wasm`, from a CDN.
* Load compressed assemblies using an HTTP request and decompress them on the client for hosts that don't support fetching compressed contents from the server.
* Alias resources to a different name by redirecting each `fetch` request to a new name.

> [!NOTE]
> External sources must return the required [Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)](https://www.w3.org/TR/cors/) headers for browsers to allow cross-origin resource loading. CDNs usually provide the required headers by default.

`loadBootResource` parameters appear in the following table.

| Parameter    | Description |
| ------------ | ----------- |
| `type`       | The type of the resource. Permissible types include: `assembly`, `pdb`, `dotnetjs`, `dotnetwasm`, and `timezonedata`. You only need to specify types for custom behaviors. Types not specified to `loadBootResource` are loaded by the framework per their default loading behaviors. |
| `name`       | The name of the resource. |
| `defaultUri` | The relative or absolute URI of the resource. |
| `integrity`  | The integrity string representing the expected content in the response. |

The `loadBootResource` function can return a URI string to override the loading process. In the following example, the following files from `bin/Release/net5.0/wwwroot/_framework` are served from a CDN at `https://cdn.example.com/blazorwebassembly/5.0.0/`:

* `dotnet.*.js`
* `dotnet.wasm`
* Timezone data

Inside the closing `</body>` tag of `wwwroot/index.html`:

```html
<script src="_framework/blazor.webassembly.js" autostart="false"></script>
<script>
  Blazor.start({
    loadBootResource: function (type, name, defaultUri, integrity) {
      console.log(`Loading: '${type}', '${name}', '${defaultUri}', '${integrity}'`);
      switch (type) {
        case 'dotnetjs':
        case 'dotnetwasm':
        case 'timezonedata':
          return `https://cdn.example.com/blazorwebassembly/5.0.0/${name}`;
      }
    }
  });
</script>
```

To customize more than just the URLs for boot resources, the `loadBootResource` function can call `fetch` directly and return the result. The following example adds a custom HTTP header to the outbound requests. To retain the default integrity checking behavior, pass through the `integrity` parameter.

Inside the closing `</body>` tag of `wwwroot/index.html`:

```html
<script src="_framework/blazor.webassembly.js" autostart="false"></script>
<script>
  Blazor.start({
    loadBootResource: function (type, name, defaultUri, integrity) {
      return fetch(defaultUri, { 
        cache: 'no-cache',
        integrity: integrity,
        headers: { 'Custom-Header': 'Custom Value' }
      });
    }
  });
</script>
```

The `loadBootResource` function can also return:

* `null`/`undefined`, which results in the default loading behavior.
* A [`Response` promise](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Response). For an example, see <xref:blazor/host-and-deploy/webassembly#compression>.

## Control headers in C# code

Control headers at startup in C# code using the following approaches.

In the following examples, a [Content Security Policy (CSP)](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy) is applied to the app via a CSP header. The `{POLICY STRING}` placeholder is the CSP policy string.

* In Blazor Server and prerendered Blazor WebAssembly apps, use [ASP.NET Core Middleware](xref:fundamentals/middleware/index) to control the headers collection.

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-6.0"

  In `Program.cs`:

  ```csharp
  app.Use(async (context, next) =>
  {
      context.Response.Headers.Add("Content-Security-Policy", "{POLICY STRING}");
      await next();
  });
  ```

:::moniker-end

:::moniker range="< aspnetcore-6.0"

  In `Startup.Configure` of `Startup.cs`:

  ```csharp
  app.Use(async (context, next) =>
  {
      context.Response.Headers.Add("Content-Security-Policy", "{POLICY STRING}");
      await next();
  });
  ```

:::moniker-end

  The preceding example uses inline middleware, but you can also create a custom middleware class and call the middleware with an extension method in `Program.cs`. For more information, see <xref:fundamentals/middleware/write>.

* In hosted Blazor WebAssembly apps that aren't prerendered, pass <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.StaticFileOptions> to <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.StaticFilesEndpointRouteBuilderExtensions.MapFallbackToFile%2A> that specifies response headers at the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.StaticFileOptions.OnPrepareResponse> stage.

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-6.0"

  In `Program.cs` of the **:::no-loc text="Server":::** project:

  ```csharp
  var staticFileOptions = new StaticFileOptions
  {
      OnPrepareResponse = context =>
      {
          context.Context.Response.Headers.Add("Content-Security-Policy", 
              "{POLICY STRING}");
      }
  };

  ...

  app.MapFallbackToFile("index.html", staticFileOptions);
  ```

:::moniker-end

:::moniker range="< aspnetcore-6.0"

  In `Startup.Configure` (`Startup.cs`) of the **:::no-loc text="Server":::** project:

  ```csharp
  var staticFileOptions = new StaticFileOptions
  {
      OnPrepareResponse = context =>
      {
          context.Context.Response.Headers.Add("Content-Security-Policy", 
              "{POLICY STRING}");
      }
  };

  ...

  app.MapFallbackToFile("index.html", staticFileOptions);
  ```

:::moniker-end

For more information on CSPs, see <xref:blazor/security/content-security-policy>.

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-7.0"

## Loading progress indicators

*This section only applies to Blazor WebAssembly apps.*

The Blazor WebAssembly project template contains Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) and text indicators that show the loading progress of the app.

The progress indicators are implemented with HTML and CSS using two CSS custom properties (variables) provided by Blazor WebAssembly:

* `--blazor-load-percentage`: The percentage of app files loaded.
* `--blazor-load-percentage-text`: The percentage of app files loaded, rounded to the nearest whole number.

Using the preceding CSS variables, you can create custom progress indicators that match the styling of your app.

In the following example:

* `resourcesLoaded` is an instantaneous count of the resources loaded during app startup.
* `totalResources` is the total number of resources to load.

```javascript
const percentage = resourcesLoaded / totalResources * 100;
document.documentElement.style.setProperty(
  '--blazor-load-percentage', `${percentage}%`);
document.documentElement.style.setProperty(
  '--blazor-load-percentage-text', `"${Math.floor(percentage)}%"`);
```

The default round progress indicator is implemented in HTML in the `wwwroot/index.html` file:

```html
<div id="app">
    <svg class="loading-progress">
        <circle r="40%" cx="50%" cy="50%" />
        <circle r="40%" cx="50%" cy="50%" />
    </svg>
    <div class="loading-progress-text"></div>
</div>
```

To review the Blazor WebAssembly project template markup and styling for the default progress indicators, see the ASP.NET Core reference source:

* [`wwwroot/index.html`](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/main/src/ProjectTemplates/Web.ProjectTemplates/content/ComponentsWebAssembly-CSharp/Client/wwwroot/index.html)
* [`app.css`](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/main/src/ProjectTemplates/Web.ProjectTemplates/content/ComponentsWebAssembly-CSharp/Client/wwwroot/css/app.css)

[!INCLUDE[](~/includes/aspnetcore-repo-ref-source-links.md)]

Instead of using the default round progress indicator, the following example shows how to implement a linear progress indicator.

Add the following styles to `wwwroot/css/app.css`:

```css
.linear-progress {
    background: silver;
    width: 50vw;
    margin: 20% auto;
    height: 1rem;
    border-radius: 10rem;
    overflow: hidden;
    position: relative;
}

.linear-progress:after {
    content: '';
    position: absolute;
    inset: 0;
    background: blue;
    scale: var(--blazor-load-percentage, 0%) 100%;
    transform-origin: left top;
    transition: scale ease-out 0.5s;
}
```

A CSS variable (`var(...)`) is used to pass the value of `--blazor-load-percentage` to the `scale` property of a blue pseudo-element that indicates the loading progress of the app's files. As the app loads, `--blazor-load-percentage` is updated automatically, which dynamically changes the progress indicator's visual representation.

In `wwwroot/index.html`, remove the default SVG round indicator in `<div id="app">...</div>` and replace it with the following markup:

```html
<div class="linear-progress"></div>
```

:::moniker-end

## Additional resources

* [Environments: Set the app's environment](xref:blazor/fundamentals/environments)
* [SignalR (includes sections on SignalR startup configuration)](xref:blazor/fundamentals/signalr)
* [Globalization and localization: Statically set the culture with `Blazor.start()` (*Blazor WebAssembly only*)](xref:blazor/globalization-localization?pivots=webassembly#statically-set-the-culture)
* [Host and deploy: Blazor WebAssembly: Compression](xref:blazor/host-and-deploy/webassembly#compression)
