---
title: "Part 2: Razor Pages - EF Core in ASP.NET, CRUD"
author: tdykstra
description: Review and customize the autogenerated CRUD (create, read, update, delete) code produced by the scaffolding in your Razor pages. Tutorial 2 of 8 for the Razor Pages and Entity Framework Core in ASP.NET series.
ms.author: tdykstra
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-3.1'
ms.custom: "mvc"
ms.date: 04/20/2026
uid: data/ef-rp/crud

# customer intent: As an ASP.NET developer, I want to make changes to the auto-generated CRUD code, so I can customize my Razor pages.
---

# Tutorial 2: Razor Pages with EF Core in ASP.NET Core - CRUD

[!INCLUDE[](~/includes/not-latest-version.md)]

By [Tom Dykstra](https://github.com/tdykstra), [Jeremy Likness](https://twitter.com/jeremylikness), and [Jon P Smith](https://twitter.com/thereformedprog)

[!INCLUDE [about the series](~/includes/RP-EF/intro.md)]

This article presents the second tutorial in the eight-part series. In this tutorial, you review and customize the CRUD (create, read, update, delete) code that the scaffolding automatically creates for your Razor pages.

In this tutorial, you:

> [!div class="checklist"]
> * Customize pages: **Details**, **Create**, **Edit**, and **Delete**
> * Explore how to protect against overposting
> * Review different methods to read a single entity
> * Explore the View model

## Prerequisites

* Review the previous tutorial, [Razor Pages with Entity Framework Core in ASP.NET Core (Tutorial 1 of 8)](intro.md).

## Review the tutorial approach (no repository)

Some developers use a service layer or repository pattern to create an abstraction layer between the UI (the Razor Pages) and the data access layer. Rather than that approach, this tutorial adds the EF Core code directly to the page model classes. This method helps to minimize complexity and keep the tutorial focused on EF Core.

## Update the Details page

The scaffolded code for the Students pages doesn't include enrollment data. In this section, enrollments are added to the **Details** page.

### Read enrollments

To display a student's enrollment data on the page, the enrollment data must be read. The scaffolded code in the `Pages/Students/Details.cshtml.cs` file reads only the `Student` data without the `Enrollment` data:

[!code-csharp[Main](intro/samples/cu30snapshots/2-crud/Pages/Students/Details1.cshtml.cs?name=snippet_OnGetAsync&highlight=8)]

Replace the `OnGetAsync` method with the following code that reads enrollment data for the selected student. The changes are highlighted.

[!code-csharp[Main](intro/samples/cu30/Pages/Students/Details.cshtml.cs?name=snippet_OnGetAsync&highlight=8-12)]

The <xref:Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.EntityFrameworkQueryableExtensions.Include%2A> and [ThenInclude](xref:Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.EntityFrameworkQueryableExtensions.ThenInclude%60%603(Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.Query.IIncludableQueryable{%60%600,%60%601},System.Linq.Expressions.Expression{System.Func{%60%601,%60%602}})))
methods cause the context to load the `Student.Enrollments` navigation property, and within each enrollment, the `Enrollment.Course` navigation property. These methods are examined in detail in [Read related data (Tutorial 6 of 8)](xref:data/ef-rp/read-related-data).

The <xref:Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.EntityFrameworkQueryableExtensions.AsNoTracking%2A> method improves performance in scenarios where the entities returned aren't updated in the current context. The `AsNoTracking` setting is discussed later in this tutorial.

### Display enrollments

To display a list of enrollments, replace the code in the _Pages/Students/Details.cshtml_ file with the following code. The changes are highlighted.

[!code-cshtml[Main](intro/samples/cu30/Pages/Students/Details.cshtml?highlight=32-53)]

This code loops through the entities in the `Enrollments` navigation property. For each enrollment, the code displays the course title and the grade. The course title is retrieved from the `Course` entity stored in the `Course` navigation property of the `Enrollments` entity.

Run the app, select the **Students** tab, and select the **Details** link for a student. The list of courses and grades for the selected student is displayed.

### Use different methods to read one entity

The generated code uses the [FirstOrDefaultAsync](xref:Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.EntityFrameworkQueryableExtensions.FirstOrDefaultAsync%60%601(System.Linq.IQueryable{%60%600},System.Threading.CancellationToken)) method to read one entity. This method returns null if nothing is found. Otherwise, it returns the first row found that satisfies the query filter criteria. The `FirstOrDefaultAsync` method is generally a better choice than the following alternatives:

* The [SingleOrDefaultAsync](xref:Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.EntityFrameworkQueryableExtensions.SingleOrDefaultAsync%60%601(System.Linq.IQueryable{%60%600},System.Linq.Expressions.Expression{System.Func{%60%600,System.Boolean}},System.Threading.CancellationToken)) method throws an exception if there's more than one entity that satisfies the query filter. To determine if the query can return more than one row, the `SingleOrDefaultAsync` method tries to fetch multiple rows. The extra work is unnecessary if the query can only return one entity, as when it searches on a unique key.

* The [FindAsync](xref:Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.DbContext.FindAsync(System.Type,System.Object[])) method locates an entity with the primary key. If the context tracks an entity with the primary key, the key is returned without a request to the database. This method is optimized to look up a single entity, but you can't call the `Include` method with the `FindAsync` method. If related data is needed, the `FirstOrDefaultAsync` method is the better choice.

### Route data vs. query string

The URL for the **Details** page is `https://localhost:<port>/Students/Details?id=1`. The entity's primary key value is in the query string. Some developers prefer to pass the key value in route data: `https://localhost:<port>/Students/Details/1`. For more information, see [Update the generated pages (Tutorial 5 of 8)](xref:tutorials/razor-pages/da1#update-the-generated-code).

## Update the Create page

The scaffolded `OnPostAsync` code for the **Create** page is vulnerable to [overposting](#prevent-overposting). Replace the `OnPostAsync` method in the _Pages/Students/Create.cshtml.cs_ file with the following code.

[!code-csharp[Main](intro/samples/cu30/Pages/Students/Create.cshtml.cs?name=snippet_OnPostAsync)]

### Use the TryUpdateModelAsync method

The code in the last section creates a `Student` object and then uses posted form fields to update the `Student` object properties. The [TryUpdateModelAsync](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.ControllerBase.TryUpdateModelAsync(System.Object,System.Type,System.String)) method:

* Uses the posted form values from the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.RazorPages.PageModel.PageContext%2A> property in the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.RazorPages.PageModel> class.

* Updates only the properties listed (`s => s.FirstMidName, s => s.LastName, s => s.EnrollmentDate`).

* Looks for form fields with a "student" prefix. For example, `Student.FirstMidName`. It's not case sensitive.

* Uses the [model binding](xref:mvc/models/model-binding) system to convert form values from strings to the types in the `Student` model. For example, the `EnrollmentDate` value is converted to a `DateTime` type.

Run the app, and create a student entity to test the **Create** page.

## Prevent overposting

Using the `TryUpdateModel` method to update fields with posted values is a security best practice because it prevents overposting. For example, suppose the `Student` entity includes a `Secret` property that this web page shouldn't update or add:

[!code-csharp[Main](intro/samples/cu30snapshots/2-crud/Models/StudentZsecret.cs?name=snippet_Intro&highlight=7)]

Even if the app doesn't have a `Secret` field on the **Create** or **Update** page, a hacker could set the `Secret` value by overposting. A hacker might use a tool such as Fiddler, or write some JavaScript, to post a `Secret` form value. The original code doesn't limit the fields that the model binder uses when it creates a `Student` instance.

Whatever value the hacker specified for the `Secret` form field is updated in the database. The following image shows the Fiddler tool adding the `Secret` field with the value "OverPost" to the posted form values.

:::image type="content" source="../ef-mvc/crud/_static/fiddler.png" border="false" alt-text="Screenshot of the Composer view in Fiddler showing the Secret field added in the request body.":::

The value "OverPost" is successfully added to the `Secret` property of the inserted row. This result occurs even though the app designer never intended to set the `Secret` property with the **Create** page.

### Work with the View model

View models provide an alternative way to prevent overposting.

The application model is often called the _domain model_. The domain model typically contains all the properties required by the corresponding entity in the database. The view model contains only the properties needed for the UI page, for example, the **Create** page.

In addition to the view model, some apps use a binding model or input model to pass data between the Razor Pages page model class and the browser.

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-5.0"

Consider the following `StudentVM` view model:

[!code-csharp[Main](intro/samples/cu50/ViewModels/StudentVM.cs?name=snippet)]

The following code uses the `StudentVM` view model to create a new student:

[!code-csharp[Main](intro/samples/cu50/Pages/Students/CreateVM.cshtml.cs?name=snippet)]

The [SetValues](xref:Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.ChangeTracking.PropertyValues.SetValues(System.Object)) method sets the values of this object by reading values from another <xref:Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.ChangeTracking.PropertyValues> object. The `SetValues` method uses property name matching. The view model type:

* Doesn't need to be related to the model type.
* Requires properties that match.

Using the `StudentVM` view model requires that the **Create** page use the `StudentVM` entity rather than a `Student` entity:

[!code-cshtml[Main](intro/samples/cu50/Pages/Students/CreateVM.cshtml)]

:::moniker-end
:::moniker range="< aspnetcore-5.0"

Consider the following `Student` view model:

[!code-csharp[Main](intro/samples/cu30snapshots/2-crud/Models/StudentVM.cs)]

The following code uses the `StudentVM` view model to create a new student:

[!code-csharp[Main](intro/samples/cu30snapshots/2-crud/Pages/Students/CreateVM.cshtml.cs?name=snippet_OnPostAsync)]

The [SetValues](xref:Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.ChangeTracking.PropertyValues.SetValues(System.Object))  method sets the values of this object by reading values from another <xref:Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.ChangeTracking.PropertyValues> object. The `SetValues` method uses property name matching. The view model type:

* Doesn't need to be related to the model type.
* Requires properties that match.

Using the `StudentVM` view model requires that the [Create.cshtml](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/tree/main/aspnetcore/data/ef-rp/intro/samples/cu30snapshots/2-crud/Pages/Students/CreateVM.cshtml) file is updated to use a `StudentVM` entity rather than a `Student` entity.

:::moniker-end

## Update the Edit page

In the _Pages/Students/Edit.cshtml.cs_ file, replace the `OnGetAsync` and `OnPostAsync` methods with the following code.

[!code-csharp[Main](intro/samples/cu30/Pages/Students/Edit.cshtml.cs?name=snippet_OnGetPost)]

The code changes are similar to the **Create** page with a few exceptions:

* The `FirstOrDefaultAsync` method is replaced with the <xref:Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.DbSet%601.FindAsync%2A> method. When you don't have to include related data, the `FindAsync` method is more efficient.
* The `OnPostAsync` method has an `id` parameter.
* The current student is fetched from the database, rather than creating an empty student.

Run the app, and test it by creating and editing a student.

## Use Entity States

The database context keeps track of whether entities in memory are in sync with their corresponding rows in the database. The tracking information determines what happens when the [SaveChangesAsync](xref:Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.DbContext.SaveChangesAsync(System.Threading.CancellationToken)) method is called. For example, when a new entity is passed to the <xref:Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.DbContext.AddAsync%2A> method, that entity's state is set to <xref:Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.EntityState.Added>. When the `SaveChangesAsync` method is called, the database context issues a SQL `INSERT` command.

An entity can be in one of the [following states](xref:Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.EntityState):

* `Added`: The entity doesn't yet exist in the database. The `SaveChanges` method issues an `INSERT` statement.

* `Unchanged`: No changes need to be saved with this entity. An entity has this status when read from the database.

* `Modified`: Some or all of the entity's property values are modified. The `SaveChanges` method issues an `UPDATE` statement.

* `Deleted`: The entity is marked for deletion. The `SaveChanges` method issues a `DELETE` statement.

* `Detached`: The database context doesn't track the entity.

In a desktop app, state changes are typically set automatically. An entity is read, changes are made, and the entity state is automatically changed to `Modified`. Calling the `SaveChanges` method generates a SQL `UPDATE` statement that updates only the changed properties.

In a web app, the `DbContext` object that reads an entity and displays the data is disposed after a page is rendered. When a page's `OnPostAsync` method is called, a new web request is made with a new instance of the `DbContext` object. Rereading the entity in the new context simulates desktop processing.

## Update the Delete page

In this section, a custom error message is implemented when the call to `SaveChanges` fails.

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-6.0"

Replace the code in the _Pages/Students/Delete.cshtml.cs_ file with the following code.

[!code-csharp[Main](intro/samples/cu50/Pages/Students/Delete.cshtml.cs)]

This code adds the following functionality:

* [Logging](xref:fundamentals/logging/index) for .NET and ASP.NET Core.
* The optional parameter `saveChangesError` to the `OnGetAsync` method signature. The `saveChangesError` parameter indicates whether the method call occurs after a failure to delete the `Student` object.

:::moniker-end
:::moniker range="< aspnetcore-5.0"

Replace the code in the _Pages/Students/Delete.cshtml.cs_ file with the following code. The changes are highlighted (other than cleanup of `using` statements).

[!code-csharp[Main](intro/samples/cu30/Pages/Students/Delete.cshtml.cs?name=snippet_All&highlight=20,22,30,38-41,53-71)]

This code adds the optional parameter `saveChangesError` to the `OnGetAsync` method signature. The `saveChangesError` parameter indicates whether the method call occurs after a failure to delete the `Student` object.

:::moniker-end

The delete operation might fail because of transient network problems. Transient network errors are more likely when the database is in the cloud. The `saveChangesError` parameter is `false` when the **Delete** page `OnGetAsync` method is called from the UI. When the `OnGetAsync` method is called by the `OnPostAsync` method because the delete operation failed, the `saveChangesError` parameter is true.

The `OnPostAsync` method retrieves the selected entity, then calls the [Remove](xref:Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.DbContext.Remove(System.Object)) method to set the entity status to `Deleted`. When `SaveChanges` is called, a SQL `DELETE` command is generated. If call to the `Remove` method fails:

* The database exception is caught.
* The **Delete** page `OnGetAsync` method is called with the `saveChangesError=true` parameter.

Add an error message to the **Delete** page (_Pages/Students/Delete.cshtml_).

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-6.0"

[!code-cshtml[Main](intro/samples/cu50/Pages/Students/Delete.cshtml?highlight=10)]

:::moniker-end
:::moniker range="< aspnetcore-5.0"

[!code-cshtml[Main](intro/samples/cu30/Pages/Students/Delete.cshtml?highlight=10)]

:::moniker-end

Run the app and delete a student to test the **Delete** page.

## Next step

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Tutorial 3: Razor Pages with EF Core in ASP.NET Core - Sort, Filter, Paging](xref:data/ef-rp/sort-filter-page)