:::moniker range="= aspnetcore-9.0"

The [OpenAPI specification](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/latest.html) is a programming language-agnostic standard for documenting HTTP APIs. This standard is supported in minimal APIs through a combination of built-in APIs and open-source libraries. There are three key aspects to OpenAPI integration in an application:

* Generating information about the endpoints in the app.
* Gathering the information into a format that matches the OpenAPI schema.
* Exposing the generated OpenAPI schema via a visual UI or a serialized file.

Minimal APIs provide built-in support for generating information about endpoints in an app via the `Microsoft.AspNetCore.OpenApi` package.

The following code is generated by the ASP.NET Core minimal web API template and uses OpenAPI:

[!code-csharp[](~/fundamentals/minimal-apis/9.0-samples/WebMinOpenApi/Program.cs?name=snippet_default&highlight=5,9-12)]

In the preceding highlighted code:

* `AddOpenApi` registers services required for OpenAPI document generation into the application's DI container.
* `MapOpenApi` adds an endpoint into the application for viewing the OpenAPI document serialized into JSON.

<a name="openapinuget"></a>

## `Microsoft.AspNetCore.OpenApi` NuGet package

The [`Microsoft.AspNetCore.OpenApi`](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.AspNetCore.OpenApi/) package provides functionality that encompasses the following features:

* Support for generating OpenAPI documents at runtime and accessing them via an endpoint on the application
* Support for "transformer" APIs that allow modifying the generated document
* Support for generating OpenAPI documents at buildtime and serializing them to disk

`Microsoft.AspNetCore.OpenApi` is added as a PackageReference to a project file:

[!code-xml[](~/fundamentals/minimal-apis/9.0-samples/WebMinOpenApi/projectFile.xml?highlight=10)]

To learn more about the `Microsoft.AspNetCore.OpenApi` package, see <xref:fundamentals/minimal-apis/aspnetcore-openapi>.

## Describe endpoints

OpenAPI supports providing summaries and descriptions of routes that are registered in an app. Minimal APIs support two strategies for setting these properties on a given endpoint, using the following extension methods and attributes:

* Summaries: <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.OpenApiRouteHandlerBuilderExtensions.WithSummary%2A>
* Descriptions: <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.OpenApiRouteHandlerBuilderExtensions.WithDescription%2A>
* Summaries: <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.EndpointSummaryAttribute>
* Descriptions: <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.EndpointDescriptionAttribute>

The following sample demonstrates the different strategies for setting summaries and descriptions.

```csharp
app.MapGet("/extension-methods", () => "Hello world!")
  .WithSummary("This is a summary.")
  .WithDescription("This is a description.");

app.MapGet("/attributes",
  [EndpointSummary("This is a summary.")]
  [EndpointDescription("This is a description.")]
  () => "Hello world!");
```

## Set OpenAPI tags

OpenAPI supports specifying tags on each endpoint as a form of categorization. Minimal APIs supports two strategies for setting OpenAPI tags on a given endpoint, using:

* <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.OpenApiRouteHandlerBuilderExtensions.WithTags%2A>
* <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.TagsAttribute>

The follow sample demonstrates the different strategies for setting tags.

```csharp
app.MapGet("/extension-methods", () => "Hello world!")
  .WithTags("todos", "projects");

app.MapGet("/attributes",
  [Tags("todos", "projects")]
  () => "Hello world!");
```

## Excluding endpoints from the generated document

By default, all endpoints that are defined in an app are documented in the generated OpenAPI file. Minimal APIs supports two strategies for excluding a given endpoint from the OpenAPI document, using:

* <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.OpenApiRouteHandlerBuilderExtensions.ExcludeFromDescription%2A>
* <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Routing.ExcludeFromDescriptionAttribute>

The following sample demonstrates the different strategies for excluding a given endpoint from the generated OpenAPI document.

```csharp
app.MapGet("/extension-method", () => "Hello world!")
  .ExcludeFromDescription();

app.MapGet("/attributes",
  [ExcludeFromDescription]
  () => "Hello world!");
```

## Describe response types

OpenAPI supports providing a description of the responses returned from an API. Minimal APIs support three strategies for setting the response type of an endpoint:

* Via the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.OpenApiRouteHandlerBuilderExtensions.Produces%2A> extension method on the endpoint.
* Via the [`ProducesResponseType`](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.ProducesResponseTypeAttribute) attribute on the route handler.
* By returning<xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.TypedResults> from the route handler.

The `Produces` extension method can be used to add `Produces` metadata to an endpoint. When no parameters are provided, the extension method populates metadata for the targeted type under a `200` status code and an `application/json` content type.

```csharp
app.MapGet("/todos", async (TodoDb db) => await db.Todos.ToListAsync())
  .Produces<IList<Todo>>();
```

Using <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.TypedResults> in the implementation of an endpoint's route handler automatically includes the response type metadata for the endpoint. For example, the following code automatically annotates the endpoint with a response under the `200` status code with an `application/json` content type.

```csharp
app.MapGet("/todos", async (TodoDb db) =>
{
    var todos = await db.Todos.ToListAsync());
    return TypedResults.Ok(todos);
});
```

### Set responses for `ProblemDetails`

When setting the response type for endpoints that may return a ProblemDetails response, the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.OpenApiRouteHandlerBuilderExtensions.ProducesProblem%2A> extension method or <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.TypedResults.Problem%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> can be used to add the appropriate annotation to the endpoint's metadata.

When there are no explicit annotations provided by one of these strategies, the framework attempts to determine a default response type by examining the signature of the response. This default response is populated under the `200` status code in the OpenAPI definition.

### Multiple response types

If an endpoint can return different response types in different scenarios, you can provide metadata in the following ways:

* Call the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.OpenApiRouteHandlerBuilderExtensions.Produces%2A> extension method multiple times, as shown in the following example:

  [!code-csharp[](~/fundamentals/minimal-apis/samples/todo/Program.cs?name=snippet_getCustom)]

* Use [`Results<TResult1,TResult2,TResultN>`](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.HttpResults.Results%606) in the signature and <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.TypedResults> in the body of the handler, as shown in the following example:

  :::code language="csharp" source="~/../AspNetCore.Docs.Samples/fundamentals/minimal-apis/samples/MultipleResultTypes/Program.cs" id="snippet_multiple_result_types":::

  The `Results<TResult1,TResult2,TResultN>` [union types](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Union_type) declare that a route handler returns multiple `IResult`-implementing concrete types, and any of those types that implement `IEndpointMetadataProvider` will contribute to the endpoint’s metadata.

  The union types implement implicit cast operators. These operators enable the compiler to automatically convert the types specified in the generic arguments to an instance of the union type. This capability has the added benefit of providing compile-time checking that a route handler only returns the results that it declares it does. Attempting to return a type that isn't declared as one of the generic arguments to `Results<TResult1,TResult2,TResultN>` results in a compilation error.

## Describe request body and parameters

In addition to describing the types that are returned by an endpoint, OpenAPI also supports annotating the inputs that are consumed by an API. These inputs fall into two categories:

* Parameters that appear in the path, query string, headers, or cookies.
* Data transmitted as part of the request body.

The framework infers the types for request parameters in the path, query, and header string automatically based on the signature of the route handler.

To define the type of inputs transmitted as the request body, configure the properties by using the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.OpenApiRouteHandlerBuilderExtensions.Accepts%2A> extension method to define the object type and content type that are expected by the request handler. In the following example, the endpoint accepts a `Todo` object in the request body with an expected content-type of `application/xml`.

```csharp
app.MapPost("/todos/{id}", (int id, Todo todo) => ...)
  .Accepts<Todo>("application/xml");
```

In addition to the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.OpenApiRouteHandlerBuilderExtensions.Accepts%2A>extension method, a parameter type can describe its own annotation by implementing the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Metadata.IEndpointParameterMetadataProvider> interface. For example, the following `Todo` type adds an annotation that requires a request body with an `application/xml` content-type.

```csharp
public class Todo : IEndpointParameterMetadataProvider
{
    public static void PopulateMetadata(ParameterInfo parameter, EndpointBuilder builder)
    {
        builder.Metadata.Add(new ConsumesAttribute(typeof(Todo), isOptional: false, "application/xml"));
    }
}
```

When no explicit annotation is provided, the framework attempts to determine the default request type if there's a request body parameter in the endpoint handler. The inference uses the following heuristics to produce the annotation:

* Request body parameters that are read from a form via the [`[FromForm]`](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.FromFormAttribute) attribute are described with the `multipart/form-data` content-type.
* All other request body parameters are described with the `application/json` content-type.
* The request body is treated as optional if it's nullable or if the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Metadata.IFromBodyMetadata.AllowEmpty> property is set on the [`FromBody`](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.FromBodyAttribute) attribute.

## ASP.NET Core OpenAPI source code on GitHub

* [AddOpenApi](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/main/src/OpenApi/src/Extensions/OpenApiServiceCollectionExtensions.cs)
* [OpenApiDocumentService](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/main/src/OpenApi/src/Services/OpenApiDocumentService.cs)
* [OpenApiOptions](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/main/src/OpenApi/src/Services/OpenApiOptions.cs)

## Additional Resources

* <xref:fundamentals/minimal-apis/security>

:::moniker-end
