aspnetcore/grpc/json-transcoding.md, before:

---
title: gRPC JSON transcoding in ASP.NET Core gRPC apps
author: jamesnk
description: Learn how to create JSON HTTP APIs for gRPC services using gRPC JSON transcoding.
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-7.0'
ms.author: jamesnk
ms.date: 05/10/2023
uid: grpc/json-transcoding
ms.custom: engagement-fy23
---
# gRPC JSON transcoding in ASP.NET Core gRPC apps

By [James Newton-King](https://twitter.com/jamesnk)

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-8.0"

[gRPC](https://grpc.io) is a high-performance Remote Procedure Call (RPC) framework. gRPC uses HTTP/2, streaming, Protobuf, and message contracts to create high-performance, real-time services.

One limitation with gRPC is that not every platform can use it. Browsers don't fully support HTTP/2, making [REST APIs](https://www.redhat.com/topics/api/what-is-a-rest-api) and JSON the primary way to get data into browser apps. Despite the benefits that gRPC brings, REST APIs and JSON have an important place in modern apps. Building gRPC ***and*** JSON Web APIs adds unwanted overhead to app development.

This document discusses how to create JSON Web APIs using gRPC services.

## Overview

gRPC JSON transcoding is an extension for ASP.NET Core that creates RESTful JSON APIs for gRPC services. Once configured, transcoding allows apps to call gRPC services with familiar HTTP concepts:

* HTTP verbs
* URL parameter binding
* JSON requests/responses

gRPC can still be used to call services.

> [!NOTE]
> gRPC JSON transcoding replaces [gRPC HTTP API](https://github.com/aspnet/AspLabs/tree/main/src/GrpcHttpApi), an alternative experimental extension.

## Usage

1. Add a package reference to [`Microsoft.AspNetCore.Grpc.JsonTranscoding`](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.AspNetCore.Grpc.JsonTranscoding).
1. Register transcoding in server startup code by adding `AddJsonTranscoding`: In the `Program.cs` file, change `builder.Services.AddGrpc();` to `builder.Services.AddGrpc().AddJsonTranscoding();`.
1. Add `<IncludeHttpRuleProtos>true</IncludeHttpRuleProtos>` to the property group in the project file (`.csproj`):

   [!code-json[](~/grpc/json-transcoding/sample/sample8/GrpcServiceTranscoding/GrpcServiceTranscoding.csproj?highlight=8&range=1-9)]

1. Annotate gRPC methods in your `.proto` files with HTTP bindings and routes:

   [!code-protobuf[](~/grpc/json-transcoding/sample/sample8/GrpcServiceTranscoding/protos/greet.proto?highlight=4,11-13)]

The `SayHello` gRPC method can now be invoked as gRPC and as a JSON Web API:

* Request: `GET /v1/greeter/world`
* Response: `{ "message": "Hello world" }`

If the server is configured to write logs for each request, server logs show that a gRPC service executes the HTTP call. Transcoding maps the incoming HTTP request to a gRPC message and converts the response message to JSON.

```text
info: Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting.Diagnostics[1]
      Request starting HTTP/1.1 GET https://localhost:5001/v1/greeter/world
info: Microsoft.AspNetCore.Routing.EndpointMiddleware[0]
      Executing endpoint 'gRPC - /v1/greeter/{name}'
info: Server.GreeterService[0]
      Sending hello to world
info: Microsoft.AspNetCore.Routing.EndpointMiddleware[1]
      Executed endpoint 'gRPC - /v1/greeter/{name}'
info: Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting.Diagnostics[2]
      Request finished in 1.996ms 200 application/json
```

### Annotate gRPC methods

gRPC methods must be annotated with an HTTP rule before they support transcoding. The HTTP rule includes information about how to call the gRPC method, such as the HTTP method and route.

[!code-protobuf[](~/grpc/json-transcoding/sample/sample8/GrpcServiceTranscoding/protos/greet.proto?highlight=3-5&range=9-15)]

The proceeding example:

* Defines a `Greeter` service with a `SayHello` method. The method has an HTTP rule specified using the name `google.api.http`.
* The method is accessible with `GET` requests and the `/v1/greeter/{name}` route.
* The `name` field on the request message is bound to a route parameter.

Many options are available for customizing how a gRPC method binds to a RESTful API. For more information about annotating gRPC methods and customizing JSON, see [Configure HTTP and JSON for gRPC JSON transcoding](xref:grpc/json-transcoding-binding).

### Streaming methods

Traditional gRPC over HTTP/2 supports streaming in all directions. Transcoding is limited to server streaming only. Client streaming and bidirectional streaming methods aren't supported.

Server streaming methods use [line-delimited JSON](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON_streaming#Line-delimited_JSON). Each message written using `WriteAsync` is serialized to JSON and followed by a new line.

The following server streaming method writes three messages:

```csharp
public override async Task StreamingFromServer(ExampleRequest request,
    IServerStreamWriter<ExampleResponse> responseStream, ServerCallContext context)
{
    for (var i = 1; i <= 3; i++)
    {
        await responseStream.WriteAsync(new ExampleResponse { Text = $"Message {i}" });
        await Task.Delay(TimeSpan.FromSeconds(1));
    }
}
```

The client receives three line-delimited JSON objects:

```json
{"Text":"Message 1"}
{"Text":"Message 2"}
{"Text":"Message 3"}
```

Note that the `WriteIndented` JSON setting doesn't apply to server streaming methods. Pretty printing adds new lines and whitespace to JSON, which can't be used with line-delimited JSON.

## HTTP protocol

The ASP.NET Core gRPC service template, included in the .NET SDK, creates an app that's only configured for HTTP/2. HTTP/2 is a good default when an app only supports traditional gRPC over HTTP/2. Transcoding, however, works with both HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2. Some platforms, such as UWP or Unity, can't use HTTP/2. To support all client apps, configure the server to enable HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2.

Update the default protocol in `appsettings.json`:

```json
{
  "Kestrel": {
    "EndpointDefaults": {
      "Protocols": "Http1AndHttp2"
    }
  }
}
```

Alternatively, [configure Kestrel endpoints in startup code](xref:fundamentals/servers/kestrel/endpoints).

Enabling HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2 on the same port requires TLS for protocol negotiation. For more information about configuring HTTP protocols in a gRPC app, see [ASP.NET Core gRPC protocol negotiation](xref:grpc/aspnetcore#protocol-negotiation).

## gRPC JSON transcoding vs gRPC-Web

Both transcoding and gRPC-Web allow gRPC services to be called from a browser. However, the way each does this is different:

* gRPC-Web lets browser apps call gRPC services from the browser with the gRPC-Web client and Protobuf. gRPC-Web requires the browser app to generate a gRPC client and has the advantage of sending small, fast Protobuf messages.
* Transcoding allows browser apps to call gRPC services as if they were RESTful APIs with JSON. The browser app doesn't need to generate a gRPC client or know anything about gRPC.

The previous `Greeter` service can be called using browser JavaScript APIs:

```javascript
var name = nameInput.value;

fetch('/v1/greeter/' + name)
  .then((response) => response.json())
  .then((result) => {
    console.log(result.message);
    // Hello world
  });
```

## grpc-gateway

[grpc-gateway](https://grpc-ecosystem.github.io/grpc-gateway/) is another technology for creating RESTful JSON APIs from gRPC services. It uses the same `.proto` annotations to map HTTP concepts to gRPC services.

grpc-gateway uses code generation to create a reverse-proxy server. The reverse proxy translates RESTful calls into gRPC+Protobuf and sends the calls over HTTP/2 to the gRPC service. The benefit of this approach is the gRPC service doesn't know about the RESTful JSON APIs. Any gRPC server can use grpc-gateway.

Meanwhile, gRPC JSON transcoding runs inside an ASP.NET Core app. It deserializes JSON into Protobuf messages, then invokes the gRPC service directly. Transcoding in ASP.NET Core offers advantages to .NET app developers:

* Less complex: Both gRPC services and mapped RESTful JSON API run out of one ASP.NET Core app.
* Better performance: Transcoding deserializes JSON to Protobuf messages and invokes the gRPC service directly. There are significant performance benefits in doing this in-process versus making a new gRPC call to a different server.
* Lower cost: Fewer servers result in a smaller monthly hosting bill.

For installation and usage of grpc-gateway, see the [grpc-gateway README](https://github.com/grpc-ecosystem/grpc-gateway/#grpc-gateway).

## Additional resources

* <xref:grpc/json-transcoding-binding>
* <xref:grpc/json-transcoding-openapi>
* <xref:grpc/browser>
* <xref:grpc/grpcweb>

:::moniker-end

[!INCLUDE[](~/grpc/json-transcoding/includes/json-transcoding7.md)]

Commit message:

Added a link to the transcoding and streaming example on grpc/grpc-dotnet at end of streaming section.

aspnetcore/grpc/json-transcoding.md, after:

---
title: gRPC JSON transcoding in ASP.NET Core gRPC apps
author: jamesnk
description: Learn how to create JSON HTTP APIs for gRPC services using gRPC JSON transcoding.
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-7.0'
ms.author: jamesnk
ms.date: 05/10/2023
uid: grpc/json-transcoding
ms.custom: engagement-fy23
---
# gRPC JSON transcoding in ASP.NET Core gRPC apps

By [James Newton-King](https://twitter.com/jamesnk)

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-8.0"

[gRPC](https://grpc.io) is a high-performance Remote Procedure Call (RPC) framework. gRPC uses HTTP/2, streaming, Protobuf, and message contracts to create high-performance, real-time services.

One limitation with gRPC is that not every platform can use it. Browsers don't fully support HTTP/2, making [REST APIs](https://www.redhat.com/topics/api/what-is-a-rest-api) and JSON the primary way to get data into browser apps. Despite the benefits that gRPC brings, REST APIs and JSON have an important place in modern apps. Building gRPC ***and*** JSON Web APIs adds unwanted overhead to app development.

This document discusses how to create JSON Web APIs using gRPC services.

## Overview

gRPC JSON transcoding is an extension for ASP.NET Core that creates RESTful JSON APIs for gRPC services. Once configured, transcoding allows apps to call gRPC services with familiar HTTP concepts:

* HTTP verbs
* URL parameter binding
* JSON requests/responses

gRPC can still be used to call services.

> [!NOTE]
> gRPC JSON transcoding replaces [gRPC HTTP API](https://github.com/aspnet/AspLabs/tree/main/src/GrpcHttpApi), an alternative experimental extension.

## Usage

1. Add a package reference to [`Microsoft.AspNetCore.Grpc.JsonTranscoding`](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.AspNetCore.Grpc.JsonTranscoding).
1. Register transcoding in server startup code by adding `AddJsonTranscoding`: In the `Program.cs` file, change `builder.Services.AddGrpc();` to `builder.Services.AddGrpc().AddJsonTranscoding();`.
1. Add `<IncludeHttpRuleProtos>true</IncludeHttpRuleProtos>` to the property group in the project file (`.csproj`):

   [!code-json[](~/grpc/json-transcoding/sample/sample8/GrpcServiceTranscoding/GrpcServiceTranscoding.csproj?highlight=8&range=1-9)]

1. Annotate gRPC methods in your `.proto` files with HTTP bindings and routes:

   [!code-protobuf[](~/grpc/json-transcoding/sample/sample8/GrpcServiceTranscoding/protos/greet.proto?highlight=4,11-13)]

The `SayHello` gRPC method can now be invoked as gRPC and as a JSON Web API:

* Request: `GET /v1/greeter/world`
* Response: `{ "message": "Hello world" }`

If the server is configured to write logs for each request, server logs show that a gRPC service executes the HTTP call. Transcoding maps the incoming HTTP request to a gRPC message and converts the response message to JSON.

```text
info: Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting.Diagnostics[1]
      Request starting HTTP/1.1 GET https://localhost:5001/v1/greeter/world
info: Microsoft.AspNetCore.Routing.EndpointMiddleware[0]
      Executing endpoint 'gRPC - /v1/greeter/{name}'
info: Server.GreeterService[0]
      Sending hello to world
info: Microsoft.AspNetCore.Routing.EndpointMiddleware[1]
      Executed endpoint 'gRPC - /v1/greeter/{name}'
info: Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting.Diagnostics[2]
      Request finished in 1.996ms 200 application/json
```

### Annotate gRPC methods

gRPC methods must be annotated with an HTTP rule before they support transcoding. The HTTP rule includes information about how to call the gRPC method, such as the HTTP method and route.

[!code-protobuf[](~/grpc/json-transcoding/sample/sample8/GrpcServiceTranscoding/protos/greet.proto?highlight=3-5&range=9-15)]

The proceeding example:

* Defines a `Greeter` service with a `SayHello` method. The method has an HTTP rule specified using the name `google.api.http`.
* The method is accessible with `GET` requests and the `/v1/greeter/{name}` route.
* The `name` field on the request message is bound to a route parameter.

Many options are available for customizing how a gRPC method binds to a RESTful API. For more information about annotating gRPC methods and customizing JSON, see [Configure HTTP and JSON for gRPC JSON transcoding](xref:grpc/json-transcoding-binding).

### Streaming methods

Traditional gRPC over HTTP/2 supports streaming in all directions. Transcoding is limited to server streaming only. Client streaming and bidirectional streaming methods aren't supported.

Server streaming methods use [line-delimited JSON](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON_streaming#Line-delimited_JSON). Each message written using `WriteAsync` is serialized to JSON and followed by a new line.

The following server streaming method writes three messages:

```csharp
public override async Task StreamingFromServer(ExampleRequest request,
    IServerStreamWriter<ExampleResponse> responseStream, ServerCallContext context)
{
    for (var i = 1; i <= 3; i++)
    {
        await responseStream.WriteAsync(new ExampleResponse { Text = $"Message {i}" });
        await Task.Delay(TimeSpan.FromSeconds(1));
    }
}
```

The client receives three line-delimited JSON objects:

```json
{"Text":"Message 1"}
{"Text":"Message 2"}
{"Text":"Message 3"}
```

Note that the `WriteIndented` JSON setting doesn't apply to server streaming methods. Pretty printing adds new lines and whitespace to JSON, which can't be used with line-delimited JSON.

View or download [an ASP.NET Core gPRC transcoding and streaming app sample](https://github.com/grpc/grpc-dotnet/tree/master/examples/Transcoder).

## HTTP protocol

The ASP.NET Core gRPC service template, included in the .NET SDK, creates an app that's only configured for HTTP/2. HTTP/2 is a good default when an app only supports traditional gRPC over HTTP/2. Transcoding, however, works with both HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2. Some platforms, such as UWP or Unity, can't use HTTP/2. To support all client apps, configure the server to enable HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2.

Update the default protocol in `appsettings.json`:

```json
{
  "Kestrel": {
    "EndpointDefaults": {
      "Protocols": "Http1AndHttp2"
    }
  }
}
```

Alternatively, [configure Kestrel endpoints in startup code](xref:fundamentals/servers/kestrel/endpoints).

Enabling HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2 on the same port requires TLS for protocol negotiation. For more information about configuring HTTP protocols in a gRPC app, see [ASP.NET Core gRPC protocol negotiation](xref:grpc/aspnetcore#protocol-negotiation).

## gRPC JSON transcoding vs gRPC-Web

Both transcoding and gRPC-Web allow gRPC services to be called from a browser. However, the way each does this is different:

* gRPC-Web lets browser apps call gRPC services from the browser with the gRPC-Web client and Protobuf. gRPC-Web requires the browser app to generate a gRPC client and has the advantage of sending small, fast Protobuf messages.
* Transcoding allows browser apps to call gRPC services as if they were RESTful APIs with JSON. The browser app doesn't need to generate a gRPC client or know anything about gRPC.

The previous `Greeter` service can be called using browser JavaScript APIs:

```javascript
var name = nameInput.value;

fetch('/v1/greeter/' + name)
  .then((response) => response.json())
  .then((result) => {
    console.log(result.message);
    // Hello world
  });
```

## grpc-gateway

[grpc-gateway](https://grpc-ecosystem.github.io/grpc-gateway/) is another technology for creating RESTful JSON APIs from gRPC services. It uses the same `.proto` annotations to map HTTP concepts to gRPC services.

grpc-gateway uses code generation to create a reverse-proxy server. The reverse proxy translates RESTful calls into gRPC+Protobuf and sends the calls over HTTP/2 to the gRPC service. The benefit of this approach is the gRPC service doesn't know about the RESTful JSON APIs. Any gRPC server can use grpc-gateway.

Meanwhile, gRPC JSON transcoding runs inside an ASP.NET Core app. It deserializes JSON into Protobuf messages, then invokes the gRPC service directly. Transcoding in ASP.NET Core offers advantages to .NET app developers:

* Less complex: Both gRPC services and mapped RESTful JSON API run out of one ASP.NET Core app.
* Better performance: Transcoding deserializes JSON to Protobuf messages and invokes the gRPC service directly. There are significant performance benefits in doing this in-process versus making a new gRPC call to a different server.
* Lower cost: Fewer servers result in a smaller monthly hosting bill.

For installation and usage of grpc-gateway, see the [grpc-gateway README](https://github.com/grpc-ecosystem/grpc-gateway/#grpc-gateway).

## Additional resources

* <xref:grpc/json-transcoding-binding>
* <xref:grpc/json-transcoding-openapi>
* <xref:grpc/browser>
* <xref:grpc/grpcweb>

:::moniker-end

[!INCLUDE[](~/grpc/json-transcoding/includes/json-transcoding7.md)]
