---
title: Build web APIs with ASP.NET Core and MongoDB
author: prkhandelwal
description: This tutorial demonstrates how to build an ASP.NET Core web API using a MongoDB NoSQL database.
ms.author: scaddie
ms.custom: "mvc, seodec18"
ms.date: 01/31/2019
uid: tutorials/first-mongo-app
---
# Create a web API with ASP.NET Core and MongoDB

By [Pratik Khandelwal](https://twitter.com/K2Prk) and [Scott Addie](https://twitter.com/Scott_Addie)

This tutorial creates a web API that performs Create, Read, Update, and Delete (CRUD) operations on a [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/what-is-mongodb) NoSQL database.

In this tutorial, you learn how to:

> [!div class="checklist"]
> * Configure MongoDB
> * Create a MongoDB database
> * Define a MongoDB collection and schema
> * Perform MongoDB CRUD operations from a web API

[View or download sample code](https://github.com/aspnet/Docs/tree/master/aspnetcore/tutorials/first-mongo-app/sample) ([how to download](xref:index#how-to-download-a-sample))

## Prerequisites

# [Visual Studio](#tab/visual-studio)

* [.NET Core SDK 2.2 or later](https://www.microsoft.com/net/download/all)
* [Visual Studio 2017 version 15.9 or later](https://www.visualstudio.com/downloads/?utm_medium=microsoft&utm_source=docs.microsoft.com&utm_campaign=button+cta&utm_content=download+vs2017) with the **ASP.NET and web development** workload
* [MongoDB](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/install-mongodb-on-windows/)

# [Visual Studio Code](#tab/visual-studio-code)

* [.NET Core SDK 2.2 or later](https://www.microsoft.com/net/download/all)
* [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/download)
* [C# for Visual Studio Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.csharp)
* [MongoDB](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/administration/install-community/)

# [Visual Studio for Mac](#tab/visual-studio-mac)

* [.NET Core SDK 2.2 or later](https://www.microsoft.com/net/download/all)
* [Visual Studio for Mac version 7.7 or later](https://www.visualstudio.com/downloads/)
* [MongoDB](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/install-mongodb-on-os-x/)

---

## Configure MongoDB

If using Windows, MongoDB is installed at *C:\\Program Files\\MongoDB* by default. Add *C:\\Program Files\\MongoDB\\Server\\\<version_number>\\bin* to the `Path` environment variable. This change enables MongoDB access from anywhere on your development machine.

Use the mongo Shell in the following steps to create a database, make collections, and store documents. For more information on mongo Shell commands, see [Working with the mongo Shell](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/mongo/#working-with-the-mongo-shell).

1. Choose a directory on your development machine for storing the data. For example, *C:\\BooksData* on Windows. Create the directory if it doesn't exist. The mongo Shell doesn't create new directories.
1. Open a command shell. Run the following command to connect to MongoDB on default port 27017. Remember to replace `<data_directory_path>` with the directory you chose in the previous step.

    ```console
    mongod --dbpath <data_directory_path>
    ```

1. Open another command shell instance. Connect to the default test database by running the following command:

    ```console
    mongo
    ```

1. Run the following in a command shell:

    ```console
    use BookstoreDb
    ```

    If it doesn't already exist, a database named *BookstoreDb* is created. If the database does exist, its connection is opened for transactions.

1. Create a `Books` collection using following command:

    ```console
    db.createCollection('Books')
    ```

    The following result is displayed:

    ```console
    { "ok" : 1 }
    ```

1. Define a schema for the `Books` collection and insert two documents using the following command:

    ```console
    db.Books.insertMany([{'Name':'Design Patterns','Price':54.93,'Category':'Computers','Author':'Ralph Johnson'}, {'Name':'Clean Code','Price':43.15,'Category':'Computers','Author':'Robert C. Martin'}])
    ```

    The following result is displayed:

    ```console
    {
      "acknowledged" : true,
      "insertedIds" : [
        ObjectId("5bfd996f7b8e48dc15ff215d"),
        ObjectId("5bfd996f7b8e48dc15ff215e")
      ]
    }
    ```

1. View the documents in the database using the following command:

    ```console
    db.Books.find({}).pretty()
    ```

    The following result is displayed:

    ```console
    {
      "_id" : ObjectId("5bfd996f7b8e48dc15ff215d"),
      "Name" : "Design Patterns",
      "Price" : 54.93,
      "Category" : "Computers",
      "Author" : "Ralph Johnson"
    }
    {
      "_id" : ObjectId("5bfd996f7b8e48dc15ff215e"),
      "Name" : "Clean Code",
      "Price" : 43.15,
      "Category" : "Computers",
      "Author" : "Robert C. Martin"
    }
    ```

    The schema adds an autogenerated `_id` property of type `ObjectId` for each document.

The database is ready. You can start creating the ASP.NET Core web API.

## Create the ASP.NET Core web API project

# [Visual Studio](#tab/visual-studio)

1. Go to **File** > **New** > **Project**.
1. Select **ASP.NET Core Web Application**, name the project *BooksApi*, and click **OK**.
1. Select the **.NET Core** target framework and **ASP.NET Core 2.1**. Select the **API** project template, and click **OK**:
1. Visit [.NET Driver for MongoDB: Releases](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo-csharp-driver/releases) to determine the latest stable version of the .NET driver for MongoDB. In the **Package Manager Console** window, navigate to the project root. Run the following command to install the .NET driver for MongoDB:

    ```powershell
    Install-Package MongoDB.Driver -Version {VERSION}
    ```

# [Visual Studio Code](#tab/visual-studio-code)

1. Run the following commands in a command shell:

    ```console
    dotnet new webapi -o BooksApi
    code BooksApi
    ```

    A new ASP.NET Core web API project targeting .NET Core is generated and opened in Visual Studio Code.

1. Click **Yes** when the *Required assets to build and debug are missing from 'BooksApi'. Add them?* notification appears.
1. Visit [.NET Driver for MongoDB: Releases](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo-csharp-driver/releases) to determine the latest stable version of the .NET driver for MongoDB. Open **Integrated Terminal** and navigate to the project root. Run the following command to install the .NET driver for MongoDB:

    ```console
    dotnet add BooksApi.csproj package MongoDB.Driver -v {VERSION}
    ```

# [Visual Studio for Mac](#tab/visual-studio-mac)

1. Go to **File** > **New Solution** > **.NET Core** > **App**.
1. Select the **ASP.NET Core Web API** C# project template, and click **Next**.
1. Select **.NET Core 2.2** from the **Target Framework** drop-down list, and click **Next**.
1. Enter *BooksApi* for the **Project Name**, and click **Create**.
1. In the **Solution** pad, right-click the project's **Dependencies** node and select **Add Packages**.
1. Enter *MongoDB.Driver* in the search box, select the *MongoDB.Driver* package, and click **Add Package**.
1. Click the **Accept** button in the **License Acceptance** dialog.

---

## Add a model

1. Add a *Models* directory to the project root.
1. Add a `Book` class to the *Models* directory with the following code:

    [!code-csharp[](first-mongo-app/sample/BooksApi/Models/Book.cs)]

In the preceding class, the `Id` property:

* Is required for mapping the Common Language Runtime (CLR) object to the MongoDB collection.
* Is annotated with `[BsonId]` to designate this property as the document's primary key.
* Is annotated with `[BsonRepresentation(BsonType.ObjectId)]` to allow passing the parameter as type `string` instead of `ObjectId`. Mongo handles the conversion from `string` to `ObjectId`.

Other properties in the class are annotated with the `[BsonElement]` attribute. The attribute's value represents the property name in the MongoDB collection.

## Add a CRUD operations class

1. Add a *Services* directory to the project root.
1. Add a `BookService` class to the *Services* directory with the following code:

    [!code-csharp[](first-mongo-app/sample/BooksApi/Services/BookService.cs?name=snippet_BookServiceClass)]

1. Add the MongoDB connection string to *appsettings.json*:

    [!code-csharp[](first-mongo-app/sample/BooksApi/appsettings.json?highlight=2-4)]

    The preceding `BookstoreDb` property is accessed in the `BookService` class constructor.

1. In `Startup.ConfigureServices`, register the `BookService` class with the Dependency Injection system:

    [!code-csharp[](first-mongo-app/sample/BooksApi/Startup.cs?name=snippet_ConfigureServices&highlight=3)]

    The preceding service registration is necessary to support constructor injection in consuming classes.

The `BookService` class uses the following `MongoDB.Driver` members to perform CRUD operations against the database:

* `MongoClient` &ndash; Reads the server instance for performing database operations. The constructor of this class is provided the MongoDB connection string:

    [!code-csharp[](first-mongo-app/sample/BooksApi/Services/BookService.cs?name=snippet_BookServiceConstructor&highlight=3)]

* `IMongoDatabase` &ndash; Represents the Mongo database for performing operations. This tutorial uses the generic `GetCollection<T>(collection)` method on the interface to gain access to data in a specific collection. CRUD operations can be performed against the collection after this method is called. In the `GetCollection<T>(collection)` method call:
  * `collection` represents the collection name.
  * `T` represents the CLR object type stored in the collection.

`GetCollection<T>(collection)` returns a `MongoCollection` object representing the collection. In this tutorial, the following methods are invoked on the collection:

* `Find<T>` &ndash; Returns all documents in the collection matching the provided search criteria.
* `InsertOne` &ndash; Inserts the provided object as a new document in the collection.
* `ReplaceOne` &ndash; Replaces the single document matching the provided search criteria with the provided object.
* `DeleteOne` &ndash; Deletes a single document matching the provided search criteria.

## Add a controller

1. Add a `BooksController` class to the *Controllers* directory with the following code:

    [!code-csharp[](first-mongo-app/sample/BooksApi/Controllers/BooksController.cs)]

    The preceding web API controller:

    * Uses the `BookService` class to perform CRUD operations.
    * Contains action methods to support GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE HTTP requests.
1. Build and run the app.
1. Navigate to `http://localhost:<port>/api/books` in your browser. The following JSON response is displayed:

    ```json
    [
      {
        "id":"5bfd996f7b8e48dc15ff215d",
        "bookName":"Design Patterns",
        "price":54.93,
        "category":"Computers",
        "author":"Ralph Johnson"
      },
      {
        "id":"5bfd996f7b8e48dc15ff215e",
        "bookName":"Clean Code",
        "price":43.15,
        "category":"Computers",
        "author":"Robert C. Martin"
      }
    ]
    ```

## Next steps

For more information on building ASP.NET Core web APIs, see the following resources:

* <xref:web-api/index>
* <xref:web-api/action-return-types>
