aspnetcore/blazor/hybrid/static-files.md, before:

---
title: ASP.NET Core Blazor Hybrid static files
author: guardrex
description: Learn how to consume static asset files in Blazor Hybrid apps.
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-6.0'
ms.author: riande
ms.custom: mvc
ms.date: 11/08/2022
uid: blazor/hybrid/static-files
---
# ASP.NET Core Blazor Hybrid static files

This article describes how to consume static asset files in Blazor Hybrid apps.

In a Blazor Hybrid app, static files are *app resources*, accessed by Razor components using the following approaches:

* [.NET MAUI](#net-maui): [:::no-loc text=".NET MAUI file system helpers":::](/dotnet/maui/platform-integration/storage/file-system-helpers)
* [WPF](#wpf) and [Windows Forms](#windows-forms): <xref:System.Resources.ResourceManager>

When static assets are only used in the Razor components, static assets can be consumed from the web root (`wwwroot` folder) in a similar way to Blazor WebAssembly and Blazor Server apps. For more information, see the [Static assets limited to Razor components](#static-assets-limited-to-razor-components) section.

## .NET MAUI

In .NET MAUI apps, [*raw assets*](/dotnet/maui/fundamentals/single-project#raw-assets) using the `MauiAsset` build action and [:::no-loc text=".NET MAUI file system helpers":::](/dotnet/maui/platform-integration/storage/file-system-helpers) are used for static assets.

Place raw assets into the `Resources/Raw` folder of the app. The example in this section uses a static text file.

`Resources/Raw/Data.txt`:

```text
This is text from a static text file resource.
```

The following Razor component:

* Calls <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Storage.FileSystem.OpenAppPackageFileAsync%2A> to obtain a <xref:System.IO.Stream> for the resource.
* Reads the <xref:System.IO.Stream> with a <xref:System.IO.StreamReader>.
* Calls <xref:System.IO.StreamReader.ReadToEndAsync%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> to read the file.

`Pages/StaticAssetExample.razor`:

```razor
@page "/static-asset-example"
@using System.IO
@using Microsoft.Extensions.Logging
@using Microsoft.Maui.Storage
@inject ILogger<StaticAssetExample> Logger

<h1>Static Asset Example</h1>

<p>@dataResourceText</p>

@code {
    public string dataResourceText = "Loading resource ...";

    protected override async Task OnInitializedAsync()
    {
        try
        {
            using var stream = 
                await FileSystem.OpenAppPackageFileAsync("Data.txt");
            using var reader = new StreamReader(stream);

            dataResourceText = await reader.ReadToEndAsync();
        }
        catch (FileNotFoundException ex)
        {
            dataResourceText = "Data file not found.";
            Logger.LogError(ex, "'Resource/Raw/Data.txt' not found.");
        }
    }
}
```

For more information, see the following resources:

* [Target multiple platforms from .NET MAUI single project (.NET MAUI documentation)](/dotnet/maui/fundamentals/single-project)
* [Improve consistency with resizetizer (dotnet/maui #4367)](https://github.com/dotnet/maui/pull/4367)

## WPF

Place the asset into a folder of the app, typically at the project's root, such as a `Resources` folder. The example in this section uses a static text file.

`Resources/Data.txt`:

```text
This is text from a static text file resource.
```

If a `Properties` folder doesn't exist in the app, create a `Properties` folder in the root of the app.

If the `Properties` folder doesn't contain a resources file (`Resources.resx`), create the file in **Solution Explorer** with the **Add** > **New Item** contextual menu command.

Double-click the `Resource.resx` file.

Select **Strings** > **Files** from the dropdown list.

Select **Add Resource** > **Add Existing File**. If prompted by Visual Studio to confirm editing the file, select **Yes**. Navigate to the `Resources` folder, select the `Data.txt` file, and select **Open**.

In the following example component, <xref:System.Resources.ResourceManager.GetString%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> obtains the string resource's text for display.

> [!WARNING]
> Never use <xref:System.Resources.ResourceManager> methods with untrusted data.

`StaticAssetExample.razor`:

```razor
@page "/static-asset-example"
@using System.Resources

<h1>Static Asset Example</h1>

<p>@dataResourceText</p>

@code {
    public string dataResourceText = "Loading resource ...";

    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        var resources = 
            new ResourceManager(typeof(WpfBlazor.Properties.Resources));

        dataResourceText = resources.GetString("Data") ?? "'Data' not found.";
    }
}
```

## Windows Forms

Place the asset into a folder of the app, typically at the project's root, such as a `Resources` folder. The example in this section uses a static text file.

`Resources/Data.txt`:

```text
This is text from a static text file resource.
```

Examine the files associated with `Form1` in **Solution Explorer**. If `Form1` doesn't have a resource file (`.resx`), add a `Form1.resx` file with the **Add** > **New Item** contextual menu command.

Double-click the `Form1.resx` file.

Select **Strings** > **Files** from the dropdown list.

Select **Add Resource** > **Add Existing File**. If prompted by Visual Studio to confirm editing the file, select **Yes**. Navigate to the `Resources` folder, select the `Data.txt` file, and select **Open**.

In the following example component:

* The app's assembly name is `WinFormsBlazor`. The <xref:System.Resources.ResourceManager>'s base name is set to the assembly name of `Form1` ( `WinFormsBlazor.Form1`).
* <xref:System.Resources.ResourceManager.GetString%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> obtains the string resource's text for display.

> [!WARNING]
> Never use <xref:System.Resources.ResourceManager> methods with untrusted data.

`StaticAssetExample.razor`:

```razor
@page "/static-asset-example"
@using System.Resources

<h1>Static Asset Example</h1>

<p>@dataResourceText</p>

@code {
    public string dataResourceText = "Loading resource ...";

    protected override async Task OnInitializedAsync()
    {   
        var resources = 
            new ResourceManager("WinFormsBlazor.Form1", this.GetType().Assembly);

        dataResourceText = resources.GetString("Data") ?? "'Data' not found.";
    }
}
```

## Static assets limited to Razor components

In scenarios where the app only uses static assets in Razor components, the static assets can be supplied from the app's web root (`wwwroot` folder).

Place assets into the `wwwroot` folder. The example in this section uses a static text file.

`wwwroot/data.txt`:

```text
This is text from a static text file resource.
```

In **Solution Explorer**, select the `data.txt` file. In the file's **Properties**, set **Copy to Output Directory** to **Copy if newer**.

The following Jeep&reg; image is also used in this section's example. You can right-click the following image to save it locally for use in a local test app.

`wwwroot/jeep-yj.png`:

![Jeep YJ&reg;](~/blazor/components/class-libraries/_static/jeep-yj.png)

> [!NOTE]
> For images in `wwwroot`, the **Copy to Output Directory** property uses the default setting of **Do not copy**.

In a Razor component:

* The static text file contents can be read using the following techniques:
  * .NET MAUI: [:::no-loc text=".NET MAUI file system helpers":::](/dotnet/maui/platform-integration/storage/file-system-helpers) (<xref:Microsoft.Maui.Storage.FileSystem.OpenAppPackageFileAsync%2A>)
  * WPF and Windows Forms: <xref:System.IO.StreamReader.ReadToEndAsync%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>
* The image can be the source attribute (`src`) of an image tag (`<img>`).

`StaticAssetExample2.razor`:

```razor
@page "/static-asset-example-2"
@using Microsoft.Extensions.Logging
@inject ILogger<StaticAssetExample2> Logger

<h1>Static Asset Example 2</h1>

<p>@dataResourceText</p>

<p><img alt="1991 Jeep YJ" src="/jeep-yj.png" /></p>

<p>
    <em>Jeep</em> and <em>Jeep YJ</em> are registered trademarks of 
    <a href="https://www.stellantis.com">FCA US LLC (Stellantis NV)</a>.
</p>

@code {
    public string dataResourceText = "Loading resource ...";

    protected override async Task OnInitializedAsync()
    {   
        try
        {
            dataResourceText = await ReadData();
        }
        catch (FileNotFoundException ex)
        {
            dataResourceText = "Data file not found.";
            Logger.LogError(ex, "'wwwroot/data.txt' not found.");
        }
    }
}
```

In .NET MAUI apps, add the following `ReadData` method to the `@code` block of the preceding component:

```csharp
private async Task<string> ReadData()
{
    using var stream = await FileSystem.OpenAppPackageFileAsync("wwwroot/data.txt");
    using var reader = new StreamReader(stream);

    return await reader.ReadToEndAsync();
}
```

In WPF and Windows Forms apps, add the following `ReadData` method to the `@code` block of the preceding component:

```csharp
private async Task<string> ReadData()
{
    using var reader = new StreamReader("wwwroot/data.txt");

    return await reader.ReadToEndAsync();
}
```

## Trademarks

*Jeep* and *Jeep YJ* are registered trademarks of [FCA US LLC (Stellantis NV)](https://www.stellantis.com).

## Additional resources

* <xref:System.Resources.ResourceManager>
* [Create resource files for .NET apps (.NET Fundamentals documentation)](/dotnet/core/extensions/create-resource-files)
* [How to: Use resources in localizable apps (WPF documentation)](/dotnet/desktop/wpf/advanced/how-to-use-resources-in-localizable-applications)

Commit message:

Clarifications on Blazor Hybrid static web assets

aspnetcore/blazor/hybrid/static-files.md, after:

---
title: ASP.NET Core Blazor Hybrid static files
author: guardrex
description: Learn how to consume static asset files in Blazor Hybrid apps.
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-6.0'
ms.author: riande
ms.custom: mvc
ms.date: 12/06/2022
uid: blazor/hybrid/static-files
---
# ASP.NET Core Blazor Hybrid static files

This article describes how to consume static asset files in Blazor Hybrid apps.

In a Blazor Hybrid app, static files are *app resources*, accessed by Razor components using the following approaches:

* [.NET MAUI](#net-maui): [:::no-loc text=".NET MAUI file system helpers":::](/dotnet/maui/platform-integration/storage/file-system-helpers)
* [WPF](#wpf) and [Windows Forms](#windows-forms): <xref:System.Resources.ResourceManager>

When static assets are only used in the Razor components, static assets can be consumed from the web root (`wwwroot` folder) in a similar way to Blazor WebAssembly and Blazor Server apps. For more information, see the [Static assets limited to Razor components](#static-assets-limited-to-razor-components) section.

## .NET MAUI

In .NET MAUI apps, [*raw assets*](/dotnet/maui/fundamentals/single-project#raw-assets) using the `MauiAsset` build action and [:::no-loc text=".NET MAUI file system helpers":::](/dotnet/maui/platform-integration/storage/file-system-helpers) are used for static assets.

Place raw assets into the `Resources/Raw` folder of the app. The example in this section uses a static text file.

`Resources/Raw/Data.txt`:

```text
This is text from a static text file resource.
```

The following Razor component:

* Calls <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Storage.FileSystem.OpenAppPackageFileAsync%2A> to obtain a <xref:System.IO.Stream> for the resource.
* Reads the <xref:System.IO.Stream> with a <xref:System.IO.StreamReader>.
* Calls <xref:System.IO.StreamReader.ReadToEndAsync%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> to read the file.

`Pages/StaticAssetExample.razor`:

```razor
@page "/static-asset-example"
@using System.IO
@using Microsoft.Extensions.Logging
@using Microsoft.Maui.Storage
@inject ILogger<StaticAssetExample> Logger

<h1>Static Asset Example</h1>

<p>@dataResourceText</p>

@code {
    public string dataResourceText = "Loading resource ...";

    protected override async Task OnInitializedAsync()
    {
        try
        {
            using var stream = 
                await FileSystem.OpenAppPackageFileAsync("Data.txt");
            using var reader = new StreamReader(stream);

            dataResourceText = await reader.ReadToEndAsync();
        }
        catch (FileNotFoundException ex)
        {
            dataResourceText = "Data file not found.";
            Logger.LogError(ex, "'Resource/Raw/Data.txt' not found.");
        }
    }
}
```

For more information, see the following resources:

* [Target multiple platforms from .NET MAUI single project (.NET MAUI documentation)](/dotnet/maui/fundamentals/single-project)
* [Improve consistency with resizetizer (dotnet/maui #4367)](https://github.com/dotnet/maui/pull/4367)

## WPF

Place the asset into a folder of the app, typically at the project's root, such as a `Resources` folder. The example in this section uses a static text file.

`Resources/Data.txt`:

```text
This is text from a static text file resource.
```

If a `Properties` folder doesn't exist in the app, create a `Properties` folder in the root of the app.

If the `Properties` folder doesn't contain a resources file (`Resources.resx`), create the file in **Solution Explorer** with the **Add** > **New Item** contextual menu command.

Double-click the `Resource.resx` file.

Select **Strings** > **Files** from the dropdown list.

Select **Add Resource** > **Add Existing File**. If prompted by Visual Studio to confirm editing the file, select **Yes**. Navigate to the `Resources` folder, select the `Data.txt` file, and select **Open**.

In the following example component, <xref:System.Resources.ResourceManager.GetString%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> obtains the string resource's text for display.

> [!WARNING]
> Never use <xref:System.Resources.ResourceManager> methods with untrusted data.

`StaticAssetExample.razor`:

```razor
@page "/static-asset-example"
@using System.Resources

<h1>Static Asset Example</h1>

<p>@dataResourceText</p>

@code {
    public string dataResourceText = "Loading resource ...";

    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        var resources = 
            new ResourceManager(typeof(WpfBlazor.Properties.Resources));

        dataResourceText = resources.GetString("Data") ?? "'Data' not found.";
    }
}
```

## Windows Forms

Place the asset into a folder of the app, typically at the project's root, such as a `Resources` folder. The example in this section uses a static text file.

`Resources/Data.txt`:

```text
This is text from a static text file resource.
```

Examine the files associated with `Form1` in **Solution Explorer**. If `Form1` doesn't have a resource file (`.resx`), add a `Form1.resx` file with the **Add** > **New Item** contextual menu command.

Double-click the `Form1.resx` file.

Select **Strings** > **Files** from the dropdown list.

Select **Add Resource** > **Add Existing File**. If prompted by Visual Studio to confirm editing the file, select **Yes**. Navigate to the `Resources` folder, select the `Data.txt` file, and select **Open**.

In the following example component:

* The app's assembly name is `WinFormsBlazor`. The <xref:System.Resources.ResourceManager>'s base name is set to the assembly name of `Form1` ( `WinFormsBlazor.Form1`).
* <xref:System.Resources.ResourceManager.GetString%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> obtains the string resource's text for display.

> [!WARNING]
> Never use <xref:System.Resources.ResourceManager> methods with untrusted data.

`StaticAssetExample.razor`:

```razor
@page "/static-asset-example"
@using System.Resources

<h1>Static Asset Example</h1>

<p>@dataResourceText</p>

@code {
    public string dataResourceText = "Loading resource ...";

    protected override async Task OnInitializedAsync()
    {   
        var resources = 
            new ResourceManager("WinFormsBlazor.Form1", this.GetType().Assembly);

        dataResourceText = resources.GetString("Data") ?? "'Data' not found.";
    }
}
```

## Static assets limited to Razor components

One or more `BlazorWebView` controls have a configured host file (:::no-loc text="HostPage":::), typically `wwwroot/index.html`. The :::no-loc text="HostPage"::: path is relative to the project. All static web assets (scripts, CSS files, images, and other files) that are referenced from a `BlazorWebView` are relative to its configured :::no-loc text="HostPage":::.

Static web assets from a [Razor class library (RCL)](xref:razor-pages/ui-class) use special paths: `_content/{PACKAGE ID}/{PATH AND FILE NAME}`. The `{PACKAGE ID}` placeholder is the library's [package ID](/nuget/create-packages/creating-a-package-msbuild#set-properties). The package ID defaults to the project's assembly name if `<PackageId>` isn't specified in the project file. The `{PATH AND FILE NAME}` placeholder is path and file name under `wwwroot`. These paths are logically subpaths of the app's `wwwroot` folder, although they're actually coming from other packages or projects. Component-specific CSS style bundles are also built at the root of the `wwwroot` folder.

The web root of the :::no-loc text="HostPage"::: determines which subset of static assets are available:

* `wwwroot/index.html` (*Recommended*): All assets in the app's `wwwroot` folder are available (for example: `wwwroot/image.png` is available from the relative path `image.png`), including subfolders (for example: `wwwroot/subfolder/image.png` is available from the relative path `subfolder/image.png`). RCL static assets in the RCL's `wwwroot` folder are available (for example: `wwwroot/image.png` is available from the path `_content/{PACKAGE ID}/image.png`), including subfolders (for example: `wwwroot/subfolder/image.png` is available from the path `_content/{PACKAGE ID}/subfolder/image.png`).
* `wwwroot/{PATH}/index.html`: All assets in the app's `wwwroot/{PATH}` folder are available using relative paths. RCL static assets in `wwwroot/{PATH}` are ***not available*** because they would be in a non-existent theoretical location, such as `../../_content/{PACKAGE ID}/{PATH}`, which is ***not a supported relative path***.
* `wwwroot/_content/{PACKAGE ID}/index.html`: All assets in the RCL's `wwwroot/{PATH}` folder are available using relative paths. The app's static assets in `wwwroot/{PATH}` are ***not available*** because they would be in a non-existent theoretical location, such as `../../{PATH}`, which is ***not a supported relative path***.

For most apps, we recommend placing the :::no-loc text="HostPage"::: at the root of the `wwwroot` folder of the app, which provides the greatest flexibility for supplying static assets from the app, RCLs, and via subfolders of the app and RCLs.

The following examples demonstrate referencing static assets from the app's web root (`wwwroot` folder) with a :::no-loc text="HostPage"::: rooted in the `wwwroot` folder.

`wwwroot/data.txt`:

```text
This is text from a static text file resource.
```

In **Solution Explorer**, select the `data.txt` file. In the file's **Properties**, set **Copy to Output Directory** to **Copy if newer**.

The following Jeep&reg; image is also used in this section's example. You can right-click the following image to save it locally for use in a local test app.

`wwwroot/jeep-yj.png`:

![Jeep YJ&reg;](~/blazor/components/class-libraries/_static/jeep-yj.png)

> [!NOTE]
> For images in `wwwroot`, the **Copy to Output Directory** property uses the default setting of **Do not copy**.

In a Razor component:

* The static text file contents can be read using the following techniques:
  * .NET MAUI: [:::no-loc text=".NET MAUI file system helpers":::](/dotnet/maui/platform-integration/storage/file-system-helpers) (<xref:Microsoft.Maui.Storage.FileSystem.OpenAppPackageFileAsync%2A>)
  * WPF and Windows Forms: <xref:System.IO.StreamReader.ReadToEndAsync%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>
* The image can be the source attribute (`src`) of an image tag (`<img>`).

`StaticAssetExample2.razor`:

```razor
@page "/static-asset-example-2"
@using Microsoft.Extensions.Logging
@inject ILogger<StaticAssetExample2> Logger

<h1>Static Asset Example 2</h1>

<p>@dataResourceText</p>

<p><img alt="1991 Jeep YJ" src="/jeep-yj.png" /></p>

<p>
    <em>Jeep</em> and <em>Jeep YJ</em> are registered trademarks of 
    <a href="https://www.stellantis.com">FCA US LLC (Stellantis NV)</a>.
</p>

@code {
    public string dataResourceText = "Loading resource ...";

    protected override async Task OnInitializedAsync()
    {   
        try
        {
            dataResourceText = await ReadData();
        }
        catch (FileNotFoundException ex)
        {
            dataResourceText = "Data file not found.";
            Logger.LogError(ex, "'wwwroot/data.txt' not found.");
        }
    }
}
```

In .NET MAUI apps, add the following `ReadData` method to the `@code` block of the preceding component:

```csharp
private async Task<string> ReadData()
{
    using var stream = await FileSystem.OpenAppPackageFileAsync("wwwroot/data.txt");
    using var reader = new StreamReader(stream);

    return await reader.ReadToEndAsync();
}
```

In WPF and Windows Forms apps, add the following `ReadData` method to the `@code` block of the preceding component:

```csharp
private async Task<string> ReadData()
{
    using var reader = new StreamReader("wwwroot/data.txt");

    return await reader.ReadToEndAsync();
}
```

## Trademarks

*Jeep* and *Jeep YJ* are registered trademarks of [FCA US LLC (Stellantis NV)](https://www.stellantis.com).

## Additional resources

* <xref:System.Resources.ResourceManager>
* [Create resource files for .NET apps (.NET Fundamentals documentation)](/dotnet/core/extensions/create-resource-files)
* [How to: Use resources in localizable apps (WPF documentation)](/dotnet/desktop/wpf/advanced/how-to-use-resources-in-localizable-applications)
