aspnetcore/tutorials/razor-pages/model.md, before:

---
title: Part 2, add a model
author: wadepickett
description: Part 2 of tutorial series on Razor Pages. In this section, model classes are added.
ms.author: wpickett
ms.date: 05/24/2023
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-3.1'
ms.custom: engagement-fy23
uid: tutorials/razor-pages/model
---
# Part 2, add a model to a Razor Pages app in ASP.NET Core

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-8.0"

In this tutorial, classes are added for managing movies in a database. The app's model classes use [Entity Framework Core (EF Core)](/ef/core) to work with the database. EF Core is an object-relational mapper (O/RM) that simplifies data access. You write the model classes first, and EF Core creates the database.

The model classes are known as POCO classes (from "**P**lain-**O**ld **C**LR **O**bjects") because they don't have a dependency on EF Core. They define the properties of the data that are stored in the database.

## Add a data model

# [Visual Studio](#tab/visual-studio)

1. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click the *RazorPagesMovie* project > **Add** > **New Folder**. Name the folder `Models`.
1. Right-click the `Models` folder. Select **Add** > **Class**. Name the class *Movie*.
1. Add the following properties to the `Movie` class:

   [!code-csharp[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie70/Models/Movie.cs?name=snippet1)]

The `Movie` class contains:

* The `ID` field is required by the database for the primary key.
* A [[DataType]](xref:System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations.DataTypeAttribute) attribute that specifies the type of data in the `ReleaseDate` property. With this attribute:

  * The user isn't required to enter time information in the date field.
  * Only the date is displayed, not time information.
* The question mark after `string` indicates that the property is nullable. For more information, see [Nullable reference types](/dotnet/csharp/nullable-references).

# [Visual Studio Code](#tab/visual-studio-code)

1. Add a folder named `Models`.
1. Add a class to the `Models` folder named `Movie.cs`.

Add the following properties to the `Movie` class:

[!code-csharp[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie70/Models/Movie.cs?name=snippet1)]

The `Movie` class contains:

* An `ID` field to provide a primary key for the database.
* A [[DataType]](xref:System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations.DataTypeAttribute) attribute to specify the type of data in the `ReleaseDate` field. With this attribute:

  * The user is not required to enter time information in the date field.
  * Only the date is displayed, not time information.
* The question mark after `string` indicates that the property is nullable. For more information, see [Nullable reference types](/dotnet/csharp/nullable-references).

<a name="dc7"></a>

### Add NuGet packages and EF tools

[!INCLUDE[](~/includes/add-EF-NuGet-SQLite-CLI-7.md)]

# [Visual Studio for Mac](#tab/visual-studio-mac)

1. In the **Solution Tool Window**, control-click the *RazorPagesMovie* project, and then select **Add** > **New Folder...**. Name the folder `Models`.
1. Control-click the `Models` folder, and then select **Add** > **New Class...**.
1. In the **New File** dialog:
   1. Select **General** in the left pane.
   1. Select **Empty Class** in the center pane.
   1. Name the class **Movie** and select **Create**.

1. Add the following properties to the `Movie` class:

   [!code-csharp[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie70/Models/Movie.cs?name=snippet1)]

The `Movie` class contains:

* An `ID` field to provide a primary key for the database.
* A [[DataType]](xref:System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations.DataTypeAttribute) attribute to specify the type of data in the `ReleaseDate` field. With this attribute:

  * The user isn't required to enter time information in the date field.
  * Only the date is displayed, not time information.

---

[DataAnnotations](xref:System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations) are covered in a later tutorial.

Build the project to verify there are no compilation errors.

## Scaffold the movie model

In this section, the movie model is scaffolded. That is, the scaffolding tool produces pages for Create, Read, Update, and Delete (CRUD) operations for the movie model.

# [Visual Studio](#tab/visual-studio)

1. Create the *Pages/Movies* folder:
   1. Right-click on the *Pages* folder > **Add** > **New Folder**.
   1. Name the folder *Movies*.

1. Right-click on the *Pages/Movies* folder > **Add** > **New Scaffolded Item**.

   ![New Scaffolded Item](~/tutorials/razor-pages/model/_static/5/sca.png)

1. In the **Add New Scaffold** dialog, select **Razor Pages using Entity Framework (CRUD)** > **Add**.

   ![Add Scaffold](~/tutorials/razor-pages/model/_static/6/add_scaffold.png)

1. Complete the **Add Razor Pages using Entity Framework (CRUD)** dialog:
   1. In the **Model class** drop down, select **Movie (RazorPagesMovie.Models)**.
   1. In the **Data context class** row, select the **+** (plus) sign.
      1. In the **Add Data Context** dialog, the class name `RazorPagesMovie.Data.RazorPagesMovieContext` is generated.
      1. In the **Database provider** drop down, select **SQL Server**.
   1. Select **Add**.

   ![Add Razor Pages](~/tutorials/razor-pages/model/_static/7/arp_VS22_17.6.2.png)

The `appsettings.json` file is updated with the connection string used to connect to a local database.

# [Visual Studio Code](#tab/visual-studio-code)

* Open a command shell to the project directory, which contains the `Program.cs` and `.csproj` files. Run the following command:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet aspnet-codegenerator razorpage -m Movie -dc RazorPagesMovie.Data.RazorPagesMovieContext -udl -outDir Pages/Movies --referenceScriptLibraries --databaseProvider sqlite
  ```

<a name="codegenerator"></a>
The following table details the ASP.NET Core code generator options.

| Option               | Description|
| ----------------- | ------------ |
| `-m`  | The name of the model. |
| `-dc`  | The `DbContext` class to use including namespace. |
| `-udl` | Use the default layout. |
| `-outDir` | The relative output folder path to create the views. |
| `--referenceScriptLibraries` | Adds `_ValidationScriptsPartial` to Edit and Create pages |

Use the `-h` option to get help on the `dotnet aspnet-codegenerator razorpage` command:

```dotnetcli
dotnet aspnet-codegenerator razorpage -h
```

For more information, see [dotnet aspnet-codegenerator](xref:fundamentals/tools/dotnet-aspnet-codegenerator).

[!INCLUDE[](~/includes/DevProdSQLite.md)]

# [Visual Studio for Mac](#tab/visual-studio-mac)
<!--
Author note 5-30-23: As of VS 2022 and the 7.05 packages, EF scaffolding on the Mac loads all packages needed including SQLite 7.0.5, but then can't find SQLite and will not scaffold the files. Workaround is add Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.Sqlite as a step before scaffolding.  Remove once this issue is fixed.
-->
1. Add the NuGet package `Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.Sqlite`, which is required for the scaffolding tool.
   1. In the **Solution Tool Window**, control-click the *RazorPagesMovie* project, and then select **Open in Terminal**.

     The Terminal window opens with the command prompt at the project directory, which contains the Program.cs and .csproj files.

   1. Run the following .NET CLI command:

     ```dotnetcli
       dotnet add package Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SQLite
     ```

1. Create a *Pages/Movies* folder:
   1. Control-click on the *Pages* folder > **Add** > **New Folder**.
   1. Name the folder *Movies*.

1. Control-click on the *Pages/Movies* folder > **Add** > **New Scaffolding...**.

   ![New Scaffolding on Mac](~/tutorials/razor-pages/model/_static/6/scaMac6.png)

1. In the **New Scaffolding** dialog, select **Razor Pages using Entity Framework (CRUD)** > **Next**.

   ![Add Scaffolding on Mac](~/tutorials/razor-pages/model/_static/7/add_scaffoldMac7.png)

1. Complete the **Add Razor Pages using Entity Framework (CRUD)** dialog:
   1. In the **Model class to use:** row, enter `Movie`.
   1. In the **DbContext Class to use:** row, name the class `RazorPagesMovie.Data.RazorPagesMovieContext`.
   1. Select **Finish**.

   ![Add Razor Pages on Mac](~/tutorials/razor-pages/model/_static/arpMac.png)

The scaffolding process may take some time to complete as required packages are automatically downloaded and added to the project.

The `appsettings.json` file is updated with the connection string used to connect to a local database.

[!INCLUDE[](~/includes/DevProdSQLite.md)]

---

<!--
### Fix nullable warnings

Build the app. The `Create.cshtml.cs`, `Delete.cshtml.cs`, `Details.cshtml.cs`, `Index.cshtml.cs`, and `Edit.cshtml.cs` files all report a nullable warning when the app is compiled similar to the following:

`warning CS8618: Non-nullable property 'Movie' must contain a non-null` value when exiting constructor. Consider declaring the property as nullable.

In each of the files, append `= default!;` to the `Movie` declaration. For example:

```diff
- public IList<Movie> Movie { get;set; }
+ public IList<Movie> Movie { get;set; }  = default!;
- public Movie Movie { get; set; }
+ public Movie Movie { get; set; } = default!;
```
Fixed in GA per https://github.com/dotnet/Scaffolding/issues/1594#issuecomment-1292422389
-->

### Files created and updated

The scaffold process creates the following files:

* *Pages/Movies*: Create, Delete, Details, Edit, and Index.
* `Data/RazorPagesMovieContext.cs`

The created files are explained in the next tutorial.

The scaffold process adds the following highlighted code to the `Program.cs` file:

# [Visual Studio](#tab/visual-studio)
[!code-csharp[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie70/Program.cs?name=snippet_all&highlight=1-3,8-9)]
# [Visual Studio Code / Visual Studio for Mac](#tab/visual-studio-code+visual-studio-mac)
[!code-csharp[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie70/Program.cs?name=snippet_all_sl&highlight=1-2,8-9)]

---

The `Program.cs` changes are explained later in this tutorial.

<a name="pmc7"></a>

## Create the initial database schema using EF's migration feature

The migrations feature in Entity Framework Core provides a way to:

* Create the initial database schema.
* Incrementally update the database schema to keep it in sync with the app's data model.  Existing data in the database is preserved.

# [Visual Studio](#tab/visual-studio)

In this section, the **Package Manager Console** (PMC) window is used to:

* Add an initial migration.
* Update the database with the initial migration.

1. From the **Tools** menu, select **NuGet Package Manager** > **Package Manager Console**.

   ![PMC menu](~/tutorials/razor-pages/model/_static/5/pmc.png)

1. In the PMC, enter the following commands:

   ```powershell
   Add-Migration InitialCreate
   Update-Database
   ```

* The `Add-Migration` command generates code to create the initial database schema. The schema is based on the model specified in `DbContext`. The `InitialCreate` argument is used to name the migration. Any name can be used, but by convention a name is selected that describes the migration.

* The `Update-Database` command runs the `Up` method in migrations that have not been applied. In this case, the command runs the `Up` method in the `Migrations/<time-stamp>_InitialCreate.cs` file, which creates the database.

# [Visual Studio Code](#tab/visual-studio-code)

* Right-click the *RazorPagesMovie.csproj* project, and then select **Open in Integrated Terminal**.

  The **Terminal** window opens with the command prompt at the project directory, which contains the Program.cs and .csproj files.

* Run the following .NET CLI commands:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet ef migrations add InitialCreate
  dotnet ef database update
  ```

* The `migrations` command generates code to create the initial database schema. The schema is based on the model specified in `DbContext`. The `InitialCreate` argument is used to name the migrations. Any name can be used, but by convention a name is selected that describes the migration.

* The `update` command runs the `Up` method in migrations that have not been applied. In this case, `update` runs the `Up` method in the `Migrations/<time-stamp>_InitialCreate.cs` file, which creates the database.

> [!NOTE]
> For SQLite, column type for the `Price` field is set to `TEXT`. This is resolved in a later step.

# [Visual Studio for Mac](#tab/visual-studio-mac)

* Control-click the *RazorPagesMovie* project, and then select **Open in Terminal**.

  The **Terminal** window opens with the command prompt at the project directory, which contains the Program.cs and .csproj files.

* Run the following .NET CLI commands:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet tool uninstall --global dotnet-ef
  dotnet tool install --global dotnet-ef
  dotnet ef migrations add InitialCreate
  dotnet ef database update
  ```

* The `tool` commands install the latest [Entity Framework Core tools](/ef/core/get-started/overview/install#get-the-entity-framework-core-tools) after uninstalling any previous version, if one exists.

* The `migrations` command generates code to create the initial database schema. The schema is based on the model specified in `DbContext`. The `InitialCreate` argument is used to name the migrations. Any name can be used, but by convention a name is selected that describes the migration.

* The `update` command runs the `Up` method in migrations that have not been applied. In this case, `update` runs the `Up` method in the `Migrations/<time-stamp>_InitialCreate.cs` file, which creates the database.

> [!NOTE]
> For SQLite, column type for the `Price` field is set to `TEXT`. This is resolved in a later step.

---

The following warning is displayed, which is addressed in a later step:

> No type was specified for the decimal column 'Price' on entity type 'Movie'. This will cause values to be silently truncated if they do not fit in the default precision and scale. Explicitly specify the SQL server column type that can accommodate all the values using 'HasColumnType()'.

The data context `RazorPagesMovieContext`:

* Derives from [Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.DbContext](xref:Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.DbContext).
* Specifies which entities are included in the data model.
* Coordinates EF Core functionality, such as Create, Read, Update and Delete, for the `Movie` model.

[!code-csharp[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie70/Data/RazorPagesMovieContext.cs)]

The preceding code creates a [DbSet\<Movie>](xref:Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.DbSet%601) property for the entity set. In Entity Framework terminology, an entity set typically corresponds to a database table. An entity corresponds to a row in the table.

The name of the connection string is passed in to the context by calling a method on a [DbContextOptions](xref:Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.DbContextOptions) object. For local development, the [Configuration system](xref:fundamentals/configuration/index) reads the connection string from the `appsettings.json` file.

<a name="test7"></a>

## Test the app

1. Run the app and append `/Movies` to the URL in the browser (`http://localhost:port/movies`).

   If you receive the following error:

   ```console
   SqlException: Cannot open database "RazorPagesMovieContext-GUID" requested by the login. The login failed.
   Login failed for user 'User-name'.
   ```

   You missed the [migrations step](#pmc6).

1. Test the **Create New** link.

   ![Create page](~/tutorials/razor-pages/model/_static/conan5.png)

   > [!NOTE]
   > You may not be able to enter decimal commas in the `Price` field. To support [jQuery validation](https://jqueryvalidation.org/) for non-English locales that use a comma (",") for a decimal point and for non US-English date formats, the app must be globalized. For globalization instructions, see [this GitHub issue](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/issues/4076#issuecomment-326590420).

1. Test the **Edit**, **Details**, and **Delete** links.

The next tutorial explains the files created by scaffolding.

### Examine the context registered with dependency injection

ASP.NET Core is built with [dependency injection](xref:fundamentals/dependency-injection). Services, such as the EF Core database context, are registered with dependency injection during application startup. Components that require these services (such as Razor Pages) are provided via constructor parameters. The constructor code that gets a database context instance is shown later in the tutorial.

The scaffolding tool automatically created a database context and registered it with the dependency injection container. The following highlighted code is added to the `Program.cs` file by the scaffolder:

# [Visual Studio](#tab/visual-studio)

[!code-csharp[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie70/Program.cs?name=snippet_all&highlight=9-10)]

# [Visual Studio Code / Visual Studio for Mac](#tab/visual-studio-code+visual-studio-mac)
[!code-csharp[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie70/Program.cs?name=snippet_all_sl&highlight=7-8)]

---

## Troubleshooting with the completed sample

If you run into a problem you can't resolve, compare your code to the completed project. [View or download completed project](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/tree/main/aspnetcore/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie70) ([how to download](xref:index#how-to-download-a-sample)).

## Additional resources

> [!div class="step-by-step"]
> [Previous: Get Started](xref:tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start)
> [Next: Scaffolded Razor Pages](xref:tutorials/razor-pages/page)

:::moniker-end

[!INCLUDE[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/model/includes/model7.md)]

[!INCLUDE[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/model/includes/model6.md)]

[!INCLUDE[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/model/includes/model5.md)]

[!INCLUDE[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/model/includes/model3.md)]

Commit message:

Added .NET 8 version of sample and snapshot sample

aspnetcore/tutorials/razor-pages/model.md, after:

---
title: Part 2, add a model
author: wadepickett
description: Part 2 of tutorial series on Razor Pages. In this section, model classes are added.
ms.author: wpickett
ms.date: 05/24/2023
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-3.1'
ms.custom: engagement-fy23
uid: tutorials/razor-pages/model
---
# Part 2, add a model to a Razor Pages app in ASP.NET Core

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-8.0"

In this tutorial, classes are added for managing movies in a database. The app's model classes use [Entity Framework Core (EF Core)](/ef/core) to work with the database. EF Core is an object-relational mapper (O/RM) that simplifies data access. You write the model classes first, and EF Core creates the database.

The model classes are known as POCO classes (from "**P**lain-**O**ld **C**LR **O**bjects") because they don't have a dependency on EF Core. They define the properties of the data that are stored in the database.

## Add a data model

# [Visual Studio](#tab/visual-studio)

1. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click the *RazorPagesMovie* project > **Add** > **New Folder**. Name the folder `Models`.
1. Right-click the `Models` folder. Select **Add** > **Class**. Name the class *Movie*.
1. Add the following properties to the `Movie` class:

   [!code-csharp[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie80/Models/Movie.cs?name=snippet1)]

The `Movie` class contains:

* The `ID` field is required by the database for the primary key.
* A [[DataType]](xref:System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations.DataTypeAttribute) attribute that specifies the type of data in the `ReleaseDate` property. With this attribute:

  * The user isn't required to enter time information in the date field.
  * Only the date is displayed, not time information.
* The question mark after `string` indicates that the property is nullable. For more information, see [Nullable reference types](/dotnet/csharp/nullable-references).

# [Visual Studio Code](#tab/visual-studio-code)

1. Add a folder named `Models`.
1. Add a class to the `Models` folder named `Movie.cs`.

Add the following properties to the `Movie` class:

[!code-csharp[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie80/Models/Movie.cs?name=snippet1)]

The `Movie` class contains:

* An `ID` field to provide a primary key for the database.
* A [[DataType]](xref:System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations.DataTypeAttribute) attribute to specify the type of data in the `ReleaseDate` field. With this attribute:

  * The user is not required to enter time information in the date field.
  * Only the date is displayed, not time information.
* The question mark after `string` indicates that the property is nullable. For more information, see [Nullable reference types](/dotnet/csharp/nullable-references).

<a name="dc7"></a>

### Add NuGet packages and EF tools

[!INCLUDE[](~/includes/add-EF-NuGet-SQLite-CLI-7.md)]

# [Visual Studio for Mac](#tab/visual-studio-mac)

For Visual Studio for Mac, see the .NET 7 version of this tutorial.

<!--
1. In the **Solution Tool Window**, control-click the *RazorPagesMovie* project, and then select **Add** > **New Folder...**. Name the folder `Models`.
1. Control-click the `Models` folder, and then select **Add** > **New Class...**.
1. In the **New File** dialog:
   1. Select **General** in the left pane.
   1. Select **Empty Class** in the center pane.
   1. Name the class **Movie** and select **Create**.

1. Add the following properties to the `Movie` class:

   [!code-csharp[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie80/Models/Movie.cs?name=snippet1)]

The `Movie` class contains:

* An `ID` field to provide a primary key for the database.
* A [[DataType]](xref:System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations.DataTypeAttribute) attribute to specify the type of data in the `ReleaseDate` field. With this attribute:

  * The user isn't required to enter time information in the date field.
  * Only the date is displayed, not time information.
-->

---

[DataAnnotations](xref:System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations) are covered in a later tutorial.

Build the project to verify there are no compilation errors.

## Scaffold the movie model

In this section, the movie model is scaffolded. That is, the scaffolding tool produces pages for Create, Read, Update, and Delete (CRUD) operations for the movie model.

# [Visual Studio](#tab/visual-studio)

1. Create the *Pages/Movies* folder:
   1. Right-click on the *Pages* folder > **Add** > **New Folder**.
   1. Name the folder *Movies*.

1. Right-click on the *Pages/Movies* folder > **Add** > **New Scaffolded Item**.

   ![New Scaffolded Item](~/tutorials/razor-pages/model/_static/5/sca.png)

1. In the **Add New Scaffold** dialog, select **Razor Pages using Entity Framework (CRUD)** > **Add**.

   ![Add Scaffold](~/tutorials/razor-pages/model/_static/6/add_scaffold.png)

1. Complete the **Add Razor Pages using Entity Framework (CRUD)** dialog:
   1. In the **Model class** drop down, select **Movie (RazorPagesMovie.Models)**.
   1. In the **Data context class** row, select the **+** (plus) sign.
      1. In the **Add Data Context** dialog, the class name `RazorPagesMovie.Data.RazorPagesMovieContext` is generated.
      1. In the **Database provider** drop down, select **SQL Server**.
   1. Select **Add**.

   ![Add Razor Pages](~/tutorials/razor-pages/model/_static/8/arp_VS22_17.7.0.png)

The `appsettings.json` file is updated with the connection string used to connect to a local database.

# [Visual Studio Code](#tab/visual-studio-code)

* Open a command shell to the project directory, which contains the `Program.cs` and `.csproj` files. Run the following command:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet aspnet-codegenerator razorpage -m Movie -dc RazorPagesMovie.Data.RazorPagesMovieContext -udl -outDir Pages/Movies --referenceScriptLibraries --databaseProvider sqlite
  ```

<a name="codegenerator"></a>
The following table details the ASP.NET Core code generator options.

| Option               | Description|
| ----------------- | ------------ |
| `-m`  | The name of the model. |
| `-dc`  | The `DbContext` class to use including namespace. |
| `-udl` | Use the default layout. |
| `-outDir` | The relative output folder path to create the views. |
| `--referenceScriptLibraries` | Adds `_ValidationScriptsPartial` to Edit and Create pages |

Use the `-h` option to get help on the `dotnet aspnet-codegenerator razorpage` command:

```dotnetcli
dotnet aspnet-codegenerator razorpage -h
```

For more information, see [dotnet aspnet-codegenerator](xref:fundamentals/tools/dotnet-aspnet-codegenerator).

[!INCLUDE[](~/includes/DevProdSQLite.md)]

# [Visual Studio for Mac](#tab/visual-studio-mac)
<!--
Author note 5-30-23: As of VS 2022 and the 7.05 packages, EF scaffolding on the Mac loads all packages needed including SQLite 7.0.5, but then can't find SQLite and will not scaffold the files. Workaround is add Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.Sqlite as a step before scaffolding.  Remove once this issue is fixed.
-->
For Visual Studio for Mac, see the .NET 7 version of this tutorial.

<!--
1. Add the NuGet package `Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.Sqlite`, which is required for the scaffolding tool.
   1. In the **Solution Tool Window**, control-click the *RazorPagesMovie* project, and then select **Open in Terminal**.

     The Terminal window opens with the command prompt at the project directory, which contains the Program.cs and .csproj files.

   1. Run the following .NET CLI command:

     ```dotnetcli
       dotnet add package Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SQLite
     ```

1. Create a *Pages/Movies* folder:
   1. Control-click on the *Pages* folder > **Add** > **New Folder**.
   1. Name the folder *Movies*.

1. Control-click on the *Pages/Movies* folder > **Add** > **New Scaffolding...**.

   ![New Scaffolding on Mac](~/tutorials/razor-pages/model/_static/6/scaMac6.png)

1. In the **New Scaffolding** dialog, select **Razor Pages using Entity Framework (CRUD)** > **Next**.

   ![Add Scaffolding on Mac](~/tutorials/razor-pages/model/_static/7/add_scaffoldMac7.png)

1. Complete the **Add Razor Pages using Entity Framework (CRUD)** dialog:
   1. In the **Model class to use:** row, enter `Movie`.
   1. In the **DbContext Class to use:** row, name the class `RazorPagesMovie.Data.RazorPagesMovieContext`.
   1. Select **Finish**.

   ![Add Razor Pages on Mac](~/tutorials/razor-pages/model/_static/arpMac.png)

The scaffolding process may take some time to complete as required packages are automatically downloaded and added to the project.

The `appsettings.json` file is updated with the connection string used to connect to a local database.

[!INCLUDE[](~/includes/DevProdSQLite.md)]
-->

---

<!--
### Fix nullable warnings

Build the app. The `Create.cshtml.cs`, `Delete.cshtml.cs`, `Details.cshtml.cs`, `Index.cshtml.cs`, and `Edit.cshtml.cs` files all report a nullable warning when the app is compiled similar to the following:

`warning CS8618: Non-nullable property 'Movie' must contain a non-null` value when exiting constructor. Consider declaring the property as nullable.

In each of the files, append `= default!;` to the `Movie` declaration. For example:

```diff
- public IList<Movie> Movie { get;set; }
+ public IList<Movie> Movie { get;set; }  = default!;
- public Movie Movie { get; set; }
+ public Movie Movie { get; set; } = default!;
```
Fixed in GA per https://github.com/dotnet/Scaffolding/issues/1594#issuecomment-1292422389
-->

### Files created and updated

The scaffold process creates the following files:

* *Pages/Movies*: Create, Delete, Details, Edit, and Index.
* `Data/RazorPagesMovieContext.cs`

The created files are explained in the next tutorial.

The scaffold process adds the following highlighted code to the `Program.cs` file:

# [Visual Studio](#tab/visual-studio)
[!code-csharp[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie80/Program.cs?name=snippet_all&highlight=1-3,8-9)]
# [Visual Studio Code / Visual Studio for Mac](#tab/visual-studio-code+visual-studio-mac)
[!code-csharp[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie80/Program.cs?name=snippet_all_sl&highlight=1-2,8-9)]

---

The `Program.cs` changes are explained later in this tutorial.

<a name="pmc7"></a>

## Create the initial database schema using EF's migration feature

The migrations feature in Entity Framework Core provides a way to:

* Create the initial database schema.
* Incrementally update the database schema to keep it in sync with the app's data model.  Existing data in the database is preserved.

# [Visual Studio](#tab/visual-studio)

In this section, the **Package Manager Console** (PMC) window is used to:

* Add an initial migration.
* Update the database with the initial migration.

1. From the **Tools** menu, select **NuGet Package Manager** > **Package Manager Console**.

   ![PMC menu](~/tutorials/razor-pages/model/_static/8/pmc_VS22_17.7.0.png)

1. In the PMC, enter the following commands:

   ```powershell
   Add-Migration InitialCreate
   Update-Database
   ```

* The `Add-Migration` command generates code to create the initial database schema. The schema is based on the model specified in `DbContext`. The `InitialCreate` argument is used to name the migration. Any name can be used, but by convention a name is selected that describes the migration.

* The `Update-Database` command runs the `Up` method in migrations that have not been applied. In this case, the command runs the `Up` method in the `Migrations/<time-stamp>_InitialCreate.cs` file, which creates the database.

# [Visual Studio Code](#tab/visual-studio-code)

* Right-click the *RazorPagesMovie.csproj* project, and then select **Open in Integrated Terminal**.

  The **Terminal** window opens with the command prompt at the project directory, which contains the Program.cs and .csproj files.

* Run the following .NET CLI commands:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet ef migrations add InitialCreate
  dotnet ef database update
  ```

* The `migrations` command generates code to create the initial database schema. The schema is based on the model specified in `DbContext`. The `InitialCreate` argument is used to name the migrations. Any name can be used, but by convention a name is selected that describes the migration.

* The `update` command runs the `Up` method in migrations that have not been applied. In this case, `update` runs the `Up` method in the `Migrations/<time-stamp>_InitialCreate.cs` file, which creates the database.

> [!NOTE]
> For SQLite, column type for the `Price` field is set to `TEXT`. This is resolved in a later step.

# [Visual Studio for Mac](#tab/visual-studio-mac)

For Visual Studio for Mac, see the .NET 7 version of this tutorial.

<!--
* Control-click the *RazorPagesMovie* project, and then select **Open in Terminal**.

  The **Terminal** window opens with the command prompt at the project directory, which contains the Program.cs and .csproj files.

* Run the following .NET CLI commands:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet tool uninstall --global dotnet-ef
  dotnet tool install --global dotnet-ef
  dotnet ef migrations add InitialCreate
  dotnet ef database update
  ```

* The `tool` commands install the latest [Entity Framework Core tools](/ef/core/get-started/overview/install#get-the-entity-framework-core-tools) after uninstalling any previous version, if one exists.

* The `migrations` command generates code to create the initial database schema. The schema is based on the model specified in `DbContext`. The `InitialCreate` argument is used to name the migrations. Any name can be used, but by convention a name is selected that describes the migration.

* The `update` command runs the `Up` method in migrations that have not been applied. In this case, `update` runs the `Up` method in the `Migrations/<time-stamp>_InitialCreate.cs` file, which creates the database.

> [!NOTE]
> For SQLite, column type for the `Price` field is set to `TEXT`. This is resolved in a later step.
-->

---

The following warning is displayed, which is addressed in a later step:

> No type was specified for the decimal column 'Price' on entity type 'Movie'. This will cause values to be silently truncated if they do not fit in the default precision and scale. Explicitly specify the SQL server column type that can accommodate all the values using 'HasColumnType()'.

The data context `RazorPagesMovieContext`:

* Derives from [Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.DbContext](xref:Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.DbContext).
* Specifies which entities are included in the data model.
* Coordinates EF Core functionality, such as Create, Read, Update and Delete, for the `Movie` model.

[!code-csharp[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie80/Data/RazorPagesMovieContext.cs)]

The preceding code creates a [DbSet\<Movie>](xref:Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.DbSet%601) property for the entity set. In Entity Framework terminology, an entity set typically corresponds to a database table. An entity corresponds to a row in the table.

The name of the connection string is passed in to the context by calling a method on a [DbContextOptions](xref:Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.DbContextOptions) object. For local development, the [Configuration system](xref:fundamentals/configuration/index) reads the connection string from the `appsettings.json` file.

<a name="test7"></a>

## Test the app

1. Run the app and append `/Movies` to the URL in the browser (`http://localhost:port/movies`).

   If you receive the following error:

   ```console
   SqlException: Cannot open database "RazorPagesMovieContext-GUID" requested by the login. The login failed.
   Login failed for user 'User-name'.
   ```

   You missed the [migrations step](#pmc6).

1. Test the **Create New** link.

   ![Create page](~/tutorials/razor-pages/model/_static/8/create-new8.png)

   > [!NOTE]
   > You may not be able to enter decimal commas in the `Price` field. To support [jQuery validation](https://jqueryvalidation.org/) for non-English locales that use a comma (",") for a decimal point and for non US-English date formats, the app must be globalized. For globalization instructions, see [this GitHub issue](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/issues/4076#issuecomment-326590420).

1. Test the **Edit**, **Details**, and **Delete** links.

The next tutorial explains the files created by scaffolding.

### Examine the context registered with dependency injection

ASP.NET Core is built with [dependency injection](xref:fundamentals/dependency-injection). Services, such as the EF Core database context, are registered with dependency injection during application startup. Components that require these services (such as Razor Pages) are provided via constructor parameters. The constructor code that gets a database context instance is shown later in the tutorial.

The scaffolding tool automatically created a database context and registered it with the dependency injection container. The following highlighted code is added to the `Program.cs` file by the scaffolder:

# [Visual Studio](#tab/visual-studio)

[!code-csharp[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie80/Program.cs?name=snippet_all&highlight=9-10)]

# [Visual Studio Code / Visual Studio for Mac](#tab/visual-studio-code+visual-studio-mac)
[!code-csharp[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie80/Program.cs?name=snippet_all_sl&highlight=7-8)]

---

## Troubleshooting with the completed sample

If you run into a problem you can't resolve, compare your code to the completed project. [View or download completed project](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/tree/main/aspnetcore/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie70) ([how to download](xref:index#how-to-download-a-sample)).

## Additional resources

> [!div class="step-by-step"]
> [Previous: Get Started](xref:tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start)
> [Next: Scaffolded Razor Pages](xref:tutorials/razor-pages/page)

:::moniker-end

[!INCLUDE[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/model/includes/model7.md)]

[!INCLUDE[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/model/includes/model6.md)]

[!INCLUDE[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/model/includes/model5.md)]

[!INCLUDE[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/model/includes/model3.md)]
