---
title: Scaffolded Razor Pages in ASP.NET Core
author: rick-anderson
description: Explains the Razor Pages generated by scaffolding.
keywords: ASP.NET Core,Razor Pages,Razor,MVC
ms.author: riande
manager: wpickett
ms.date: 7/27/2017
ms.topic: get-started-article
ms.technology: aspnet
ms.prod: aspnet-core
uid: tutorials/razor-pages/page
---
# Scaffolded Razor Pages in ASP.NET Core

By [Rick Anderson](https://twitter.com/RickAndMSFT)

This tutorial examines the Razor Pages created by scaffolding in the [previous tutorial](xref:tutorials/razor-pages/page). 

[View or download](https://github.com/aspnet/Docs/tree/master/aspnetcore/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie) sample.

## The Create, Delete, Details, and Edit pages.

Examine the *Pages/Movie/Index.cshtml.cs* code-behind file:

[!code-csharp[Main](razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie/Pages/Movie/Index.cshtml.cs)]

Razor Pages are derrived from `PageModel`. By convention, the `PageModel` derrivd class is called `<PageName>Model`. The constructor uses [dependency injection](xref:fundamentals/dependency-injection) to add the `MovieContext` to the page. All the scaffolded pages follow this pattern.

When a request is made for the page, the `OnGetAsync` method returns a list of movies to the Razor Page.

Examine the *Pages/Movie/Index.cshtml* Razor page:

[!code-cshtml[Main](razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie/Pages/Movie/Index.cshtml)]

Razor can transition from HTML into C# or into Razor specific markup. When an `@` symbol is followed by a [Razor reserved keyword](xref:mvc/views/razor#razor-reserved-keywords) it transitions into Razor specific markup, otherwise it transitions into C#.

The `@page` Razor directive makes the file into an MVC action - which means that it can handle requests. @page must be the first Razor directive on a page. `@page` is an example of transitioning into Razor specific markup.  See [Razor syntax](xref:mvc/views/razor#razor-syntax) for more information.

The `@model` directive:

[!code-cshtml[Main](razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie/Pages/Movie/Index.cshtml?range=1-2&highlight=2)]

The `@model` directive specifies the type of the model passed to the Razor page. In the preceeding example, the `@model` line makes the `PageModel` derrived class available to the Razor Page. The model is used in the `@Html.DisplayNameFor` and `@Html.DisplayNameFor` [HTML Helpers](https://docs.microsoft.com/aspnet/mvc/overview/older-versions-1/views/creating-custom-html-helpers-cs#understanding-html-helpers) on the page.

<!-- why don't xref links work?
[HTML Helpers 2](xref:aspnet/mvc/overview/older-versions-1/views/creating-custom-html-helpers-cs)
-->

### ViewData and layout

Consider the following code:

[!code-cshtml[Main](razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie/Pages/Movie/Index.cshtml?range=1-6&highlight=4-)]

The preceeding highligted code is an example of Razor transitioning into C#. The `{` and `}` enclose a block of C# code.

The `Controller` base class has a `ViewData` dictionary property that can be used to add data that you want to pass to a View. You add objects into the `ViewData` dictionary using a key/value pattern. In the preceeding sample, the "Title" property is added to the `ViewData` dictionary. The "Title" property is used in the *Pages\_Layout.cshtml* file. The following markup shows the first few lines of the *Pages\_Layout.cshtml* file.

[!code-cshtml[Main](razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie/Pages/NU/_Layout1.cshtml?highlight=6-)]

Test the links in the project (**Home**, **About**, **Contact**, **Create**, **Edit**, and **Delete**). Each page sets the title, which you can see in the browser tab. When you bookmark a page, the title is used for the bookmark. *Pages/Index.cshtml* and *Pages/Movie/Index.cshtml* currently have the same title, but you can modify the title value.

The `Layout` property is set globally in the *Pages/_ViewStart.cshtml* file:

[!code-cshtml[Main](razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie/Pages/_ViewStart.cshtml)]

See [Layout](xref:mvc/razor-pages/index#layout) for more information.

### Update layout

Change the `<title>` element in the *Pages\_Layout.cshtml* file to use a shorter string.

[!code-cshtml[Main](razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie/Pages/_Layout.cshtml?range=1-6&highlight=6-)]

Find the following anchor element.

```html
<a asp-page="/Index" class="navbar-brand">RazorPagesMovie</a>
```
Replace the preceeding element with the following markup.

```html
<a asp-page="/Movie/Index" class="navbar-brand">RpMovie</a>
```

The preceeding anchor element is [Tag Helper](xref:mvc/views/tag-helpers/intro). In this case, it's a [Anchor Tag Helper](xref:mvc/views/tag-helpers/builtin-th/AnchorTagHelper). The `asp-page="/Movie/Index"` Tag Helper attribute and value creates a link to the `/Movie/Index` Razor Page.

Save your changes and test the app by clicking on the **RpMovie** link. See the [_Layout.cshtml](https://github.com/aspnet/Docs/blob/master/aspnetcore/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie/Pages/_Layout.cshtml) file in GitHub.

[View or download](https://github.com/aspnet/Docs/tree/master/aspnetcore/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie) sample.

>[!div class="step-by-step"]
[Adding a model](xref:tutorials/razor-pages/model)
<!--
[](xref:tutorials/razor-pages/page)   
-->
